Ephesians - Chapter 3

1. For this cause I, Shaul, am the prisoner of Messiah Yeshua on behalf of you Gentiles,
2. if it is so that you have heard of the administration of that grace of Elohim which was given me toward you;
3. how that by revelation the mystery was made known to me, as I wrote before in few words,
4. by which, when you read, you can perceive my understanding in the mystery of Messiah;
5. which in other generations was not made known to the children of men, as it has now been revealed to his holy emissaries and prophets in the Spirit;
6. that the Gentiles are fellow heirs, and fellow members of the body, and fellow partakers of his promise in Messiah Yeshua through the good news,
7. of which I was made a servant, according to the gift of that grace of Elohim which was given me according to the working of his power.
8. To me, the very least of all saints, was this grace given, to preach to the Gentiles the unsearchable riches of Messiah,
9. and to make all men see what is the administration of the mystery which for ages has been hidden in Elohim, who created all things through Yeshua the Messiah;
10. to the intent that now through the assembly the manifold wisdom of Elohim might be made known to the principalities and the powers in the heavenly places,
11. according to the age-enduring purpose which he purposed in Messiah Yeshua our Lord;
12. in whom we have boldness and access in confidence through our faith in him.
13. Therefore I ask that you may not lose heart at my troubles for you, which are your glory.
14. For this cause, I bow my knees to the Father of our Lord Yeshua the Messiah,
15. from whom every family in heaven and on earth is named,
16. that he would grant you, according to the riches of his glory, that you may be strengthened with power through his Spirit in the inward man;
17. that Messiah may dwell in your hearts through faith; to the end that you, being rooted and grounded in love,
18. may be strengthened to comprehend with all the saints what is the breadth and length and height and depth,
19. and to know Messiah's love which surpasses knowledge, that you may be filled with all the fullness of Elohim.
20. Now to him who is able to do exceedingly abundantly above all that we ask or think, according to the power that works in us,
21. to him be the glory in the assembly and in Messiah Yeshua to all generations forever and ever. Amen.