John - Chapter 1

1. In the beginning was the Logos, and the Logos was with Elohim, and the Logos was divine.
2. The Logos was in the beginning with Elohim.
3. All things came to be through the Logos. Apart from it, not one thing came to be that has come to be.
4. In the Logos was life, and the life was the light of human beings.
5. The light shines in the darkness, and the darkness did not overcome it.
6. There came a man, sent from Elohim, whose name was Yohanan.
7. The same came as a witness, that he might testify about the light, that all might trust through him.
8. He was not the light, but was sent that he might testify about the light.
9. The true light that enlightens everyone was coming into the world.
10. He was in the world, and the world was made through him, and the world didn't recognize him.
11. He came to his own, and those who were his own didn't receive him.
12. But as many as received him, to them he gave the right to become Elohim's children, to those who trust in his name:
13. who were born not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of Elohim.
14. The Logos became flesh and pitched its tent among us. We beheld its glory, glory as of a one-of-a-kind son from the Father, full of grace and truth.
15. Yohanan testified about him. He cried out, saying, "This was he of whom I said, 'He who comes after me has surpassed me, for he was before me.'"
16. From his fullness we all received grace upon grace.
17. For the Torah was given through Moses. Grace and truth came through Yeshua the Messiah.
18. No one has seen Elohim at any time. The one-of-a-kind Son, who is in the bosom of the Father, he has made him known.
19. This is Yohanan's testimony, when the Judeans sent priests and Levites from Jerusalem to ask him, "Who are you?"
20. He confessed, and didn't deny, but he confessed, "I am not the Messiah."
21. They asked him, "What then? Are you Elijah?" He said, "I am not." "Are you the Prophet?" He answered, "No."
22. They said therefore to him, "Who are you? Give us an answer to take back to those who sent us. What do you say about yourself?"
23. He said, "I am the voice of one crying in the wilderness, 'Make straight the way of the Lord,' as Isaiah the prophet said."
24. The ones who had been sent were from the Pharisees.
25. They asked him, "Why then do you immerse, if you are not the Messiah, nor Elijah, nor the Prophet?"
26. Yohanan answered them, "I immerse in water, but among you stands one whom you don't know.
27. He is the one who comes after me, who is preferred before me, whose sandal strap I'm not worthy to loosen."
28. These things were done in Bethany beyond the Jordan, where Yohanan was immersing.
29. The next day, he saw Yeshua coming to him, and said, "Behold, the Lamb of Elohim, who takes away the sin of the world!
30. This is he of whom I said, 'After me comes a man who is preferred before me, for he was before me.'
31. I didn't know him, but for this reason I came immersing in water: that he would be revealed to Israel."
32. Yohanan testified, saying, "I have seen the Spirit descending like a dove out of heaven, and it remained on him.
33. I didn't recognize him, but he who sent me to immerse in water, he said to me, 'On whomever you will see the Spirit descending, and remaining on him, the same is he who baptizes in the holy Ruach.'
34. I have seen, and have testified that this is the Son of Elohim."
35. Again, the next day, Yohanan was standing with two of his disciples,
36. and he looked at Yeshua as he walked, and said, "Behold, the Lamb of Elohim!"
37. The two disciples heard him speak, and they followed Yeshua.
38. Yeshua turned, and saw them following, and said to them, "What are you looking for?" They said to him, "Rabbi" (which is to say, being interpreted, Teacher), "where are you staying?"
39. He said to them, "Come, and see." They came and saw where he was staying, and they stayed with him that day. It was about the tenth hour.
40. One of the two who heard Yohanan, and followed him, was Andrew, Simon Peter's brother.
41. He first found his own brother, Simon, and said to him, "We have found the Messiah!" (which is, being interpreted, Messiah).
42. He brought him to Yeshua. Yeshua looked at him, and said, "You are Simon the son of Jonah. You shall be called Cephas" (which is by interpretation, Peter).
43. On the next day, he was determined to go out into Galilee, and he found Philip. Yeshua said to him, "Follow me."
44. Now Philip was from Bethsaida, of the city of Andrew and Peter.
45. Philip found Nathanael, and said to him, "We have found him, of whom Moses in the law, and the prophets, wrote: Yeshua of Nazareth, the son of Joseph."
46. Nathanael said to him, "Can any good thing come out of Nazareth?" Philip said to him, "Come and see."
47. Yeshua saw Nathanael coming to him, and said about him, "Behold, an Israelite indeed, in whom is no deceit!"
48. Nathanael said to him, "How do you know me?" Yeshua answered him, "Before Philip called you, when you were under the fig tree, I saw you."
49. Nathanael answered him, "Rabbi, you are the Son of Elohim! You are King of Israel!"
50. Yeshua answered him, "Because I told you, 'I saw you underneath the fig tree,' do you trust? You will see greater things than these!"
51. He said to him, "Most certainly, I tell you, hereafter you will see heaven opened, and the angels of Elohim ascending and descending on the Human One."