1 John - Chapter 5

1. Whoever believes that Yeshua is the Messiah is born of Elohim. Whoever loves the father also loves the child who is born of him.
2. By this we know that we love the children of Elohim, when we love Elohim and keep his commandments.
3. For this is the love of Elohim, that we keep his commandments. His commandments are not grievous.
4. For whatever is born of Elohim overcomes the world. This is the victory that has overcome the world: your faith.
5. Who is he who overcomes the world, but he who believes that Yeshua is the Son of Elohim?
6. This is he who came by water and blood, Yeshua the Messiah; not with the water only, but with the water and the blood. It is the Spirit who testifies, because the Spirit is the truth.
7. For there are three who testify:
8. the Spirit, the water, and the blood; and the three agree as one.
9. If we receive the witness of men, the witness of Elohim is greater; for this is Elohim's testimony which he has testified concerning his Son.
10. He who believes in the Son of Elohim has the testimony in himself. He who doesn't trust Elohim has made him a liar, because he has not believed in the testimony that Elohim has given concerning his Son.
11. The testimony is this, that Elohim gave to us life of the age, and this life is in his Son.
12. He who has the Son has the life. He who doesn't have Elohim's Son doesn't have the life.
13. These things I have written to you who trust in the name of the Son of Elohim, that you may know that you have life of the age, and that you may continue to trust in the name of the Son of Elohim.
14. This is the boldness which we have toward him, that, if we ask anything according to his will, he listens to us.
15. And if we know that he listens to us, whatever we ask, we know that we have the petitions which we have asked of him.
16. If anyone sees his brother sinning a sin not leading to death, he shall ask, and Elohim will give him life for those who sin not leading to death. There is a sin leading to death. I don't say that he should make a request concerning this.
17. All unrighteousness is sin, and there is a sin not leading to death.
18. We know that whoever is born of Elohim doesn't sin, but he who was born of Elohim keeps himself, and the evil one doesn't touch him.
19. We know that we are of Elohim, and the whole world lies in the power of the evil one.
20. We know that the Son of Elohim has come, and has given us an understanding, that we know him who is true, and we are in him who is true, in his Son Yeshua the Messiah. This is the true Elohim, and life of the age.
21. Little children, keep yourselves from idols.