Exodus 1
1. Now these are the names of the children of Israel, who came into Mitzrayim (everyone and their household came with Ya'akov):
2. Reuven, Shim'on, Levi, and Yehudah,
3. Yissakhar, Zevulun, and Binyamin,
4. Dan and Naphtali, Gad and Asher.
5. All the souls who came out of Ya'akov's body were seventy souls, and Yosef was in Mitzrayim already.
6. Yosef died, as did all his brothers, and all that generation.
7. The children of Israel were fruitful, and increased abundantly, and multiplied, and grew exceedingly mighty; and the land was filled with them.
8. Now there arose a new king over Mitzrayim, who didn't know Yosef.
9. He said to his people, "Behold, the people of the children of Israel are more and mightier than we.
10. Come, let us deal wisely with them, lest they multiply, and it happen that when any war breaks out, they also join themselves to our enemies, and fight against us, and escape out of the land."
11. Therefore they set taskmasters over them to afflict them with their burdens. They built storage cities for Pharaoh: Pithom and Raamses.
12. But the more they afflicted them, the more they multiplied and the more they spread out. They were grieved because of the children of Israel.
13. The Egyptians ruthlessly made the children of Israel serve,
14. and they made their lives bitter with hard service, in mortar and in brick, and in all manner of service in the field, all their service, in which they ruthlessly made them serve.
15. The king of Mitzrayim spoke to the Hebrew midwives, of whom the name of the one was Shiphrah, and the name of the other Puah,
16. and he said, "When you perform the duty of a midwife to the Hebrew women, and see them on the birth stool; if it is a son, then you shall kill him; but if it is a daughter, then she shall live."
17. But the midwives revered God, and didn't do what the king of Mitzrayim commanded them, but saved the baby boys alive.
18. The king of Mitzrayim called for the midwives, and said to them, "Why have you done this thing, and have saved the boys alive?"
19. The midwives said to Pharaoh, "Because the Hebrew women aren't like the Egyptian women; for they are vigorous, and give birth before the midwife comes to them."
20. Elohim dealt well with the midwives, and the people multiplied, and grew very mighty.
21. It happened, because the midwives revered God, that he gave them families.
22. Pharaoh charged all his people, saying, "You shall cast every son who is born into the river, and every daughter you shall save alive."

Exodus 2
1. A person from the house of Levi married a daughter of Levi.
2. The woman conceived, and bore a son. When she saw that he was a fine child, she hid him three months.
3. When she could no longer hide him, she took a papyrus basket for him, and coated it with tar and with pitch. She put the child in it, and laid it in the reeds by the river's bank.
4. His sister stood far off, to see what would be done to him.
5. Pharaoh's daughter came down to bathe at the river. Her maidens walked along by the riverside. She saw the basket among the reeds, and sent her handmaid to get it.
6. She opened it, and saw the child, and behold, the baby cried. She had compassion on him, and said, "This is one of the Hebrews' children."
7. Then his sister said to Pharaoh's daughter, "Should I go and call a nurse for you from the Hebrew women, that she may nurse the child for you?"
8. Pharaoh's daughter said to her, "Go." The maiden went and called the child's mother.
9. Pharaoh's daughter said to her, "Take this child away, and nurse him for me, and I will give you your wages." The woman took the child, and nursed it.
10. The child grew, and she brought him to Pharaoh's daughter, and he became her son. She named him Moshe, and said, "Because I drew him out of the water."
11. It happened in those days, when Moshe had grown up, that he went out to his brothers, and looked at their burdens. He saw an Egyptian striking a Hebrew, one of his brothers.
12. They looked this way and that way, and when they saw that there was no one, they killed the Egyptian, and hid him in the sand.
13. He went out the second day, and behold, two men of the Hebrews were fighting with each other. They said to the one who did the wrong, "Why do you strike your fellow?"
14. He said, "Who made you a prince and a judge over us? Do you plan to kill me, as you killed the Egyptian?" Moshe was afraid, and said, "Surely this thing is known."
15. Now when Pharaoh heard this thing, he sought to kill Moshe. But Moshe fled from the face of Pharaoh, and lived in the land of Midian, and he sat down by a well.
16. Now the priest of Midian had seven daughters. They came and drew water, and filled the troughs to water their father's flock.
17. The shepherds came and drove them away; but Moshe stood up and helped them, and watered their flock.
18. When they came to Reuel, their father, he said, "How is it that you have returned so early today?"
19. They said, "An Egyptian delivered us out of the hand of the shepherds, and moreover he drew water for us, and watered the flock."
20. He said to his daughters, "Where is he? Why is it that you have left the person? Call him, that he may eat bread."
21. Moshe was content to dwell with the person. He gave Moshe Zipporah, his daughter.
22. She bore a son, and he named him Gershom, for he said, "I have lived as a foreigner in a foreign land."
23. It happened in the course of those many days, that the king of Mitzrayim died, and the children of Israel sighed because of the bondage, and they cried, and their cry came up to Elohim because of the bondage.
24. Elohim heard their groaning, and Elohim remembered his covenant with Avraham, with Yitzhak, and with Ya'akov.
25. Elohim saw the children of Israel, and Elohim was concerned about them.

Exodus 3
1. Now Moshe was keeping the flock of Jethro, his father-in-law, the priest of Midian, and he led the flock to the back of the wilderness, and came to Elohim's mountain, to Horeb.
2. The angel of YHWH appeared to him in a flame of fire out of the midst of a bush. He looked, and behold, the bush burned with fire, and the bush was not consumed.
3. Moshe said, "I will turn aside now, and see this great sight, why the bush is not burnt."
4. When YHWH saw that he turned aside to see, Elohim called to him out of the midst of the bush, and said, "Moshe! Moshe!" He said, "Here I am."
5. He said, "Don't come close. Take your sandals off of your feet, for the place you are standing on is holy ground."
6. Moreover he said, "I am the God of your father, the God of Avraham, the God of Yitzhak, and the God of Ya'akov." Moshe hid his face; for he was afraid to look at Elohim.
7. YHWH said, "I have surely seen the affliction of my people who are in Mitzrayim, and have heard their cry because of their taskmasters, for I know their sorrows.
8. I have come down to deliver them out of the hand of the Egyptians, and to bring them up out of that land to a good and large land, to a land flowing with milk and honey; to the place of the Canaanite, the Hittite, the Amorite, the Perizzite, the Hivite, and the Jebusite.
9. Now, behold, the cry of the children of Israel has come to me. Moreover I have seen the oppression with which the Egyptians oppress them.
10. Come now therefore, and I will send you to Pharaoh, that you may bring forth my people, the children of Israel, out of Mitzrayim."
11. Moshe said to Elohim, "Who am I, that I should go to Pharaoh, and that I should bring forth the children of Israel out of Mitzrayim?"
12. He said, "Certainly I will be with you. This will be the token to you, that I have sent you: when you have brought forth the people out of Mitzrayim, you shall serve Elohim on this mountain."
13. Moshe said to Elohim, "Behold, when I come to the children of Israel, and tell them, 'The God of your fathers has sent me to you;' and they ask me, 'What is his name?' What should I tell them?"
14. Elohim said to Moshe, "I will be what I will be," and he said, "You shall tell the children of Israel this: 'I will be has sent me to you.'"
15. Elohim said moreover to Moshe, "You shall tell the children of Israel this, 'YHWH, the God of your fathers, the God of Avraham, the God of Yitzhak, and the God of Ya'akov, has sent me to you.' This is my name forever, and this is my memorial to all generations.
16. Go, and gather the elders of Israel together, and tell them, 'YHWH, the God of your fathers, the God of Avraham, of Yitzhak, and of Ya'akov, has appeared to me, saying, "I have surely visited you, and seen that which is done to you in Mitzrayim;
17. and I have said, I will bring you up out of the affliction of Mitzrayim to the land of the Canaanite, the Hittite, the Amorite, the Perizzite, the Hivite, and the Jebusite, to a land flowing with milk and honey."'
18. They will listen to your voice, and you shall come, you and the elders of Israel, to the king of Mitzrayim, and you shall tell him, 'YHWH, the God of the Hebrews, has met with us. Now please let us go three days' journey into the wilderness, that we may sacrifice to YHWH, our God.'
19. I know that the king of Mitzrayim won't give you permission to go, no, not by a mighty hand.
20. I will put forth my hand and strike Mitzrayim with all my wonders which I will do in the midst of it, and after that he will let you go.
21. I will give this people favor in the sight of the Egyptians, and it will happen that when you go, you shall not go empty-handed.
22. But every woman shall ask of her neighbor, and of her who visits her house, jewels of silver, jewels of gold, and clothing; and you shall put them on your sons, and on your daughters. You shall despoil the Egyptians.

Exodus 4
1. Moshe answered, "But, behold, they will not believe me, nor listen to my voice; for they will say, 'YHWH has not appeared to you.'"
2. YHWH said to him, "What is that in your hand?" He said, "A rod."
3. He said, "Throw it on the ground." He threw it on the ground, and it became a snake; and Moshe ran away from it.
4. YHWH said to Moshe, "Put forth your hand, and take it by the tail." He put forth his hand, and laid hold of it, and it became a rod in his hand.
5. "That they may believe that YHWH, the God of their fathers, the God of Avraham, the God of Yitzhak, and the God of Ya'akov, has appeared to you."
6. YHWH said furthermore to him, "Now put your hand inside your cloak." He put his hand inside his cloak, and when he took it out, behold, his hand was leprous, as white as snow.
7. He said, "Put your hand inside your cloak again." He put his hand inside his cloak again, and when he took it out of his cloak, behold, it had turned again as his other flesh.
8. "It will happen, if they will neither believe you nor listen to the voice of the first sign, that they will believe the voice of the latter sign.
9. It will happen, if they will not believe even these two signs, neither listen to your voice, that you shall take of the water of the river, and pour it on the dry land. The water which you take out of the river will become blood on the dry land."
10. Moshe said to YHWH, "Oh, YHWH, I am not eloquent, neither before now, nor since you have spoken to your servant; for I am slow of speech, and of a slow tongue."
11. YHWH said to him, "Who made a person's mouth? Or who makes one mute, or deaf, or seeing, or blind? Isn't it I, YHWH?
12. Now therefore go, and I will be with your mouth, and teach you what you shall speak."
13. They said, "Oh, YHWH, please send someone else."
14. The anger of YHWH was kindled against Moshe, and he said, "What about Aharon, your brother, the Levite? I know that he can speak well. Also, behold, he comes forth to meet you. When he sees you, he will be glad in his heart.
15. You shall speak to him, and put the words in his mouth. I will be with your mouth, and with his mouth, and will teach you what you shall do.
16. He will be your spokesman to the people; and it will happen, that he will be to you a mouth, and you will be to him as Elohim.
17. You shall take this rod in your hand, with which you shall do the signs."
18. Moshe went and returned to Jethro his father-in-law, and said to him, "Please let me go and return to my brothers who are in Mitzrayim, and see whether they are still alive." Jethro said to Moshe, "Go in peace."
19. YHWH said to Moshe in Midian, "Go, return into Mitzrayim; for all the people who sought your life are dead."
20. Moshe took his wife and his sons, and set them on a donkey, and he returned to the land of Mitzrayim. Moshe took Elohim's rod in his hand.
21. YHWH said to Moshe, "When you go back into Mitzrayim, see that you do before Pharaoh all the wonders which I have put in your hand, but I will harden his heart and he will not let the people go.
22. You shall tell Pharaoh, 'Thus says YHWH, Israel is my son, my firstborn,
23. and I have said to you, "Let my son go, that he may serve me;" and you have refused to let him go. Behold, I will kill your son, your firstborn.'"
24. It happened on the way at a lodging place, that YHWH met him and wanted to kill him.
25. Then Zipporah took a flint, and cut off the foreskin of her son, and cast it at his feet; and she said, "Surely you are a bridegroom of blood to me."
26. So he let him alone. Then she said, "You are a bridegroom of blood," because of the circumcision.
27. YHWH said to Aharon, "Go into the wilderness to meet Moshe." He went, and met him on Elohim's mountain, and kissed him.
28. Moshe told Aharon all the words of YHWH with which he had sent him, and all the signs with which he had charged him.
29. Moshe and Aharon went and gathered together all the elders of the children of Israel.
30. Aharon spoke all the words which YHWH had spoken to Moshe, and did the signs in the sight of the people.
31. The people believed, and when they heard that YHWH had visited the children of Israel, and that he had seen their affliction, then they bowed their heads and worshiped.

Exodus 5
1. Afterward Moshe and Aharon came, and said to Pharaoh, "This is what YHWH, the God of Israel, says, 'Let my people go, that they may hold a feast to me in the wilderness.'"
2. Pharaoh said, "Who is YHWH, that I should listen to his voice to let Israel go? I don't know YHWH, and moreover I will not let Israel go."
3. They said, "The God of the Hebrews has met with us. Please let us go three days' journey into the wilderness, and sacrifice to YHWH, our God, lest he fall on us with pestilence, or with the sword."
4. The king of Mitzrayim said to them, "Why do you, Moshe and Aharon, take the people from their work? Get back to your burdens!"
5. Pharaoh said, "Behold, the people of the land are now many, and you make them rest from their burdens."
6. The same day Pharaoh commanded the taskmasters of the people, and their officers, saying,
7. "You shall no longer give the people straw to make brick, as before. Let them go and gather straw for themselves.
8. The number of the bricks, which they made before, you require from them. You shall not diminish anything of it, for they are idle; therefore they cry, saying, 'Let us go and sacrifice to our God.'
9. Let heavier work be laid on the men, that they may labor therein; and don't let them pay any attention to lying words."
10. The taskmasters of the people went out, and their officers, and they spoke to the people, saying, This is what Pharaoh says: "I will not give you straw.
11. Go yourselves, get straw where you can find it, for nothing of your work shall be diminished."
12. So the people were scattered abroad throughout all the land of Mitzrayim to gather stubble for straw.
13. The taskmasters were urgent saying, "Fulfill your work quota daily, as when there was straw!"
14. The officers of the children of Israel, whom Pharaoh's taskmasters had set over them, were beaten, and demanded, "Why haven't you fulfilled your quota both yesterday and today, in making brick as before?"
15. Then the officers of the children of Israel came and cried to Pharaoh, saying, "Why do you deal this way with your servants?
16. No straw is given to your servants, and they tell us, 'Make brick!' and behold, your servants are beaten; but the fault is in your own people."
17. But he said, "You are idle! You are idle! Therefore you say, 'Let us go and sacrifice to YHWH.'
18. Go therefore now, and work, for no straw shall be given to you, yet shall you deliver the same number of bricks!"
19. The officers of the children of Israel saw that they were in trouble, when it was said, "You shall not diminish anything from your daily quota of bricks!"
20. They met Moshe and Aharon, who stood in the way, as they came forth from Pharaoh:
21. and they said to them, "May YHWH look at you, and judge, because you have made us a stench to be abhorred in the eyes of Pharaoh, and in the eyes of his servants, to put a sword in their hand to kill us."
22. Moshe returned to YHWH, and said, "YHWH, why have you brought trouble on this people? Why is it that you have sent me?
23. For since I came to Pharaoh to speak in your name, he has brought trouble on this people; neither have you delivered your people at all."

Exodus 6
1. YHWH said to Moshe, "Now you shall see what I will do to Pharaoh, for by a strong hand he shall let them go, and by a strong hand he shall drive them out of his land."
2. Elohim spoke to Moshe, and said to him, "I am YHWH;
3. and I appeared to Avraham, to Yitzhak, and to Ya'akov, as Elohim Almighty; but by my name YHWH I was not known to them.
4. I have also established my covenant with them, to give them the land of Canaan, the land of their travels, in which they lived as aliens.
5. Moreover I have heard the groaning of the children of Israel, whom the Egyptians keep in bondage, and I have remembered my covenant.
6. Therefore tell the children of Israel, 'I am YHWH, and I will bring you out from under the burdens of the Egyptians, and I will rid you out of their bondage, and I will redeem you with an outstretched arm, and with great judgments:
7. and I will take you to me for a people, and I will be to you an Elohim; and you shall know that I am YHWH your God, who brings you out from under the burdens of the Egyptians.
8. I will bring you into the land which I swore to give to Avraham, to Yitzhak, and to Ya'akov; and I will give it to you for a heritage: I am YHWH.'"
9. Moshe spoke so to the children of Israel, but they didn't listen to Moshe for anguish of spirit, and for cruel bondage.
10. YHWH spoke to Moshe, saying,
11. "Go in, speak to Pharaoh king of Mitzrayim, that he let the children of Israel go out of his land."
12. Moshe spoke before YHWH, saying, "Behold, the children of Israel haven't listened to me. How then shall Pharaoh listen to me, who am of uncircumcised lips?"
13. YHWH spoke to Moshe and to Aharon, and gave them a charge to the children of Israel, and to Pharaoh king of Mitzrayim, to bring the children of Israel out of the land of Mitzrayim.
14. These are the heads of their fathers' houses. The sons of Reuven the firstborn of Israel: Hanoch, and Pallu, Hezron, and Carmi; these are the families of Reuven.
15. The sons of Shim'on: Jemuel, and Jamin, and Ohad, and Jachin, and Zohar, and Shaul the son of a Canaanite woman; these are the families of Shim'on.
16. These are the names of the sons of Levi according to their generations: Gershon, and Kohath, and Merari; and the years of the life of Levi were one hundred thirty-seven years.
17. The sons of Gershon: Libni and Shimei, according to their families.
18. The sons of Kohath: Amram, and Izhar, and Chevron, and Uzziel; and the years of the life of Kohath were one hundred thirty-three years.
19. The sons of Merari: Mahli and Mushi. These are the families of the Levites according to their generations.
20. Amram took Jochebed his father's sister to himself as wife; and she bore him Aharon and Moshe: and the years of the life of Amram were a hundred and thirty-seven years.
21. The sons of Izhar: Korah, and Nepheg, and Zichri.
22. The sons of Uzziel: Mishael, and Elzaphan, and Sithri.
23. Aharon took Elisheba, the daughter of Amminadab, the sister of Nahshon, as his wife; and she bore him Nadab and Abihu, Eleazar and Ithamar.
24. The sons of Korah: Assir, and Elkanah, and Abiasaph; these are the families of the Korahites.
25. Eleazar Aharon's son took one of the daughters of Putiel as his wife; and she bore him Phinehas. These are the heads of the fathers' houses of the Levites according to their families.
26. These are that Aharon and Moshe, to whom YHWH said, "Bring out the children of Israel from the land of Mitzrayim according to their armies."
27. These are those who spoke to Pharaoh king of Mitzrayim, to bring out the children of Israel from Mitzrayim. These are that Moshe and Aharon.
28. It happened on the day when YHWH spoke to Moshe in the land of Mitzrayim,
29. that YHWH spoke to Moshe, saying, "I am YHWH. Speak to Pharaoh king of Mitzrayim all that I speak to you."
30. Moshe said before YHWH, "Behold, I am of uncircumcised lips, and how shall Pharaoh listen to me?"

Exodus 7
1. YHWH said to Moshe, "Behold, I have made you as Elohim to Pharaoh; and Aharon your brother shall be your prophet.
2. You shall speak all that I command you; and Aharon your brother shall speak to Pharaoh, that he let the children of Israel go out of his land.
3. I will harden Pharaoh's heart, and multiply my signs and my wonders in the land of Mitzrayim.
4. But Pharaoh will not listen to you, and I will lay my hand on Mitzrayim, and bring forth my armies, my people the children of Israel, out of the land of Mitzrayim by great judgments.
5. The Egyptians shall know that I am YHWH, when I stretch forth my hand on Mitzrayim, and bring out the children of Israel from among them."
6. Moshe and Aharon did so. As YHWH commanded them, so they did.
7. Moshe was eighty years old, and Aharon eighty-three years old, when they spoke to Pharaoh.
8. YHWH spoke to Moshe and to Aharon, saying,
9. "When Pharaoh speaks to you, saying, 'Perform a miracle!' then you shall tell Aharon, 'Take your rod, and cast it down before Pharaoh, that it become a serpent.'"
10. Moshe and Aharon went in to Pharaoh, and they did so, as YHWH had commanded: and Aharon cast down his rod before Pharaoh and before his servants, and it became a serpent.
11. Then Pharaoh also called for the wise people and the sorcerers. They also, the magicians of Mitzrayim, did in like manner with their enchantments.
12. For they cast down everyone their rod, and they became serpents: but Aharon's rod swallowed up their rods.
13. Pharaoh's heart was hardened, and he didn't listen to them; as YHWH had spoken.
14. YHWH said to Moshe, "Pharaoh's heart is stubborn. He refuses to let the people go.
15. Go to Pharaoh in the morning. Behold, he goes out to the water; and you shall stand by the river's bank to meet him; and the rod which was turned to a serpent you shall take in your hand.
16. You shall tell him, 'YHWH, the God of the Hebrews, has sent me to you, saying, "Let my people go, that they may serve me in the wilderness:" and behold, until now you haven't listened.
17. Thus says YHWH, "In this you shall know that I am YHWH. Behold, I will strike with the rod that is in my hand on the waters which are in the river, and they shall be turned to blood.
18. The fish that are in the river shall die, and the river shall become foul; and the Egyptians shall loathe to drink water from the river."'"
19. YHWH said to Moshe, "Tell Aharon, 'Take your rod, and stretch out your hand over the waters of Mitzrayim, over their rivers, over their streams, and over their pools, and over all their ponds of water, that they may become blood; and there shall be blood throughout all the land of Mitzrayim, both in vessels of wood and in vessels of stone.'"
20. Moshe and Aharon did so, as YHWH commanded; and he lifted up the rod, and struck the waters that were in the river, in the sight of Pharaoh, and in the sight of his servants; and all the waters that were in the river were turned to blood.
21. The fish that were in the river died; and the river became foul, and the Egyptians couldn't drink water from the river; and the blood was throughout all the land of Mitzrayim.
22. The magicians of Mitzrayim did in like manner with their enchantments; and Pharaoh's heart was hardened, and he didn't listen to them; as YHWH had spoken.
23. Pharaoh turned and went into his house, neither did he lay even this to heart.
24. All the Egyptians dug round about the river for water to drink; for they couldn't drink of the water of the river.
25. Seven days were fulfilled, after YHWH had struck the river.

Exodus 8
1. YHWH spoke to Moshe, Go in to Pharaoh, and tell him, "This is what YHWH says, 'Let my people go, that they may serve me.
2. If you refuse to let them go, behold, I will plague all your borders with frogs:
3. and the river shall swarm with frogs, which shall go up and come into your house, and into your bedchamber, and on your bed, and into the house of your servants, and on your people, and into your ovens, and into your kneading troughs:
4. and the frogs shall come up both on you, and on your people, and on all your servants.'"
5. YHWH said to Moshe, "Tell Aharon, 'Stretch forth your hand with your rod over the rivers, over the streams, and over the pools, and cause frogs to come up on the land of Mitzrayim.'"
6. Aharon stretched out his hand over the waters of Mitzrayim; and the frogs came up, and covered the land of Mitzrayim.
7. The magicians did in like manner with their enchantments, and brought up frogs on the land of Mitzrayim.
8. Then Pharaoh called for Moshe and Aharon, and said, "Entreat YHWH, that he take away the frogs from me, and from my people; and I will let the people go, that they may sacrifice to YHWH."
9. Moshe said to Pharaoh, "I give you the honor of setting the time that I should pray for you, and for your servants, and for your people, that the frogs be destroyed from you and your houses, and remain in the river only."
10. He said, "Tomorrow." He said, "Be it according to your word, that you may know that there is none like YHWH our God.
11. The frogs shall depart from you, and from your houses, and from your servants, and from your people. They shall remain in the river only."
12. Moshe and Aharon went out from Pharaoh, and Moshe cried to YHWH concerning the frogs which he had brought on Pharaoh.
13. YHWH did according to the word of Moshe, and the frogs died out of the houses, out of the courts, and out of the fields.
14. They gathered them together in heaps, and the land stank.
15. But when Pharaoh saw that there was a respite, he hardened his heart, and didn't listen to them, as YHWH had spoken.
16. YHWH said to Moshe, "Tell Aharon, 'Stretch out your rod, and strike the dust of the earth, that it may become lice throughout all the land of Mitzrayim.'"
17. They did so; and Aharon stretched out his hand with his rod, and struck the dust of the earth, and there were lice on man, and on animal; all the dust of the earth became lice throughout all the land of Mitzrayim.
18. The magicians tried with their enchantments to bring forth lice, but they couldn't. There were lice on man, and on animal.
19. Then the magicians said to Pharaoh, "This is the finger of Elohim:" and Pharaoh's heart was hardened, and he didn't listen to them; as YHWH had spoken.
20. YHWH said to Moshe, "Rise up early in the morning, and stand before Pharaoh; behold, he comes forth to the water; and tell him, 'This is what YHWH says, "Let my people go, that they may serve me.
21. Else, if you will not let my people go, behold, I will send swarms of flies on you, and on your servants, and on your people, and into your houses: and the houses of the Egyptians shall be full of swarms of flies, and also the ground whereon they are.
22. I will set apart in that day the land of Goshen, in which my people dwell, that no swarms of flies shall be there; to the end you may know that I am YHWH in the midst of the earth.
23. I will put a division between my people and your people: by tomorrow shall this sign be."'"
24. YHWH did so; and there came grievous swarms of flies into the house of Pharaoh, and into his servants' houses: and in all the land of Mitzrayim the land was corrupted by reason of the swarms of flies.
25. Pharaoh called for Moshe and for Aharon, and said, "Go, sacrifice to your God in the land!"
26. Moshe said, "It isn't appropriate to do so; for we shall sacrifice the abomination of the Egyptians to YHWH our God. Behold, shall we sacrifice the abomination of the Egyptians before their eyes, and won't they stone us?
27. We will go three days' journey into the wilderness, and sacrifice to YHWH our God, as he shall command us."
28. Pharaoh said, "I will let you go, that you may sacrifice to YHWH your God in the wilderness, only you shall not go very far away. Pray for me."
29. Moshe said, "Behold, I go out from you, and I will pray to YHWH that the swarms of flies may depart from Pharaoh, from his servants, and from his people, tomorrow; only don't let Pharaoh deal deceitfully any more in not letting the people go to sacrifice to YHWH."
30. Moshe went out from Pharaoh, and prayed to YHWH.
31. YHWH did according to the word of Moshe, and he removed the swarms of flies from Pharaoh, from his servants, and from his people. There remained not one.
32. Pharaoh hardened his heart this time also, and he didn't let the people go.

Exodus 9
1. Then YHWH said to Moshe, "Go in to Pharaoh, and tell him, 'This is what YHWH, the God of the Hebrews, says: "Let my people go, that they may serve me.
2. For if you refuse to let them go, and hold them still,
3. behold, the hand of YHWH is on your livestock which are in the field, on the horses, on the donkeys, on the camels, on the herds, and on the flocks with a very grievous pestilence.
4. YHWH will make a distinction between the livestock of Israel and the livestock of Mitzrayim; and there shall nothing die of all that belongs to the children of Israel."'"
5. YHWH appointed a set time, saying, "Tomorrow YHWH shall do this thing in the land."
6. YHWH did that thing on the next day; and all the livestock of Mitzrayim died, but of the livestock of the children of Israel, not one died.
7. Pharaoh sent, and, behold, there was not so much as one of the livestock of the Israelites dead. But the heart of Pharaoh was stubborn, and he didn't let the people go.
8. YHWH said to Moshe and to Aharon, "Take to you handfuls of ashes of the furnace, and let Moshe sprinkle it toward the heavens in the sight of Pharaoh.
9. It shall become small dust over all the land of Mitzrayim, and shall be a boil breaking forth with boils on man and on animal, throughout all the land of Mitzrayim."
10. They took ashes of the furnace, and stood before Pharaoh; and Moshe sprinkled it up toward the heavens; and it became a boil breaking forth with boils on man and on animal.
11. The magicians couldn't stand before Moshe because of the boils; for the boils were on the magicians, and on all the Egyptians.
12. YHWH hardened the heart of Pharaoh, and he didn't listen to them, as YHWH had spoken to Moshe.
13. YHWH said to Moshe, "Rise up early in the morning, and stand before Pharaoh, and tell him, 'This is what YHWH, the God of the Hebrews, says: "Let my people go, that they may serve me.
14. For this time I will send all my plagues against your heart, against your officials, and against your people; that you may know that there is none like me in all the earth.
15. For now I would have put forth my hand, and struck you and your people with pestilence, and you would have been cut off from the earth;
16. but indeed for this cause I have made you stand: to show you my power, and that my name may be declared throughout all the earth;
17. as you still exalt yourself against my people, that you won't let them go.
18. Behold, tomorrow about this time I will cause it to rain a very grievous hail, such as has not been in Mitzrayim since the day it was founded even until now.
19. Now therefore command that all of your livestock and all that you have in the field be brought into shelter. Everyone and animal that is found in the field, and isn't brought home, the hail shall come down on them, and they shall die."'"
20. Those who feared the word of YHWH among the servants of Pharaoh made their servants and their livestock flee into the houses.
21. Whoever didn't regard the word of YHWH left their servants and their livestock in the field.
22. YHWH said to Moshe, "Stretch forth your hand toward the heavens, that there may be hail in all the land of Mitzrayim, on man, and on animal, and on every herb of the field, throughout the land of Mitzrayim."
23. Moshe stretched forth his rod toward the heavens, and YHWH sent thunder, hail, and lightning flashed down to the earth. YHWH rained hail on the land of Mitzrayim.
24. So there was very severe hail, and lightning mixed with the hail, such as had not been in all the land of Mitzrayim since it became a nation.
25. The hail struck throughout all the land of Mitzrayim all that was in the field, both man and animal; and the hail struck every herb of the field, and broke every tree of the field.
26. Only in the land of Goshen, where the children of Israel were, there was no hail.
27. Pharaoh sent, and called for Moshe and Aharon, and said to them, "I have sinned this time. YHWH is righteous, and I and my people are wicked.
28. Pray to YHWH; for there has been enough of mighty thunderings and hail. I will let you go, and you shall stay no longer."
29. Moshe said to him, "As soon as I have gone out of the city, I will spread abroad my hands to YHWH. The thunders shall cease, neither shall there be any more hail; that you may know that the earth is YHWH's.
30. But as for you and your servants, I know that you don't yet revere YHWH Elohim."
31. The flax and the barley were struck, for the barley was in the ear, and the flax was in bloom.
32. But the wheat and the spelt were not struck, for they had not grown up.
33. Moshe went out of the city from Pharaoh, and spread abroad his hands to YHWH; and the thunders and hail ceased, and the rain was not poured on the earth.
34. When Pharaoh saw that the rain and the hail and the thunders were ceased, he sinned yet more, and hardened his heart, he and his servants.
35. The heart of Pharaoh was hardened, and he didn't let the children of Israel go, just as YHWH had spoken through Moshe.

Exodus 10
1. YHWH said to Moshe, "Go in to Pharaoh, for I have hardened his heart, and the heart of his servants, that I may show these my signs in the midst of them,
2. and that you may tell in the hearing of your son, and of your son's son, what things I have done to Mitzrayim, and my signs which I have done among them; that you may know that I am YHWH."
3. Moshe and Aharon went in to Pharaoh, and said to him, "This is what YHWH, the God of the Hebrews, says: 'How long will you refuse to humble yourself before me? Let my people go, that they may serve me.
4. Or else, if you refuse to let my people go, behold, tomorrow I will bring locusts into your country,
5. and they shall cover the surface of the earth, so that one won't be able to see the earth. They shall eat the residue of that which has escaped, which remains to you from the hail, and shall eat every tree which grows for you out of the field.
6. Your houses shall be filled, and the houses of all your servants, and the houses of all the Egyptians; as neither your fathers nor your fathers' fathers have seen, since the day that they were on the earth to this day.'" He turned, and went out from Pharaoh.
7. Pharaoh's servants said to him, "How long will this man be a snare to us? Let the men go, that they may serve YHWH, their God. Don't you yet know that Mitzrayim is destroyed?"
8. Moshe and Aharon were brought again to Pharaoh, and he said to them, "Go, serve YHWH your God; but who are those who will go?"
9. Moshe said, "We will go with our young and with our old; with our sons and with our daughters, with our flocks and with our herds will we go; for we must hold a feast to YHWH."
10. He said to them, "YHWH be with you if I will let you go with your little ones! See, brokenness is clearly before your faces.
11. Not so! Go now you who are men, and serve YHWH; for that is what you desire!" They were driven out from Pharaoh's presence.
12. YHWH said to Moshe, "Stretch out your hand over the land of Mitzrayim for the locusts, that they may come up on the land of Mitzrayim, and eat every herb of the land, even all that the hail has left."
13. Moshe stretched forth his rod over the land of Mitzrayim, and YHWH brought an east wind on the land all that day, and all the night; and when it was morning, the east wind brought the locusts.
14. The locusts went up over all the land of Mitzrayim, and rested in all the borders of Mitzrayim. They were very grievous. Before them there were no such locusts as they, neither after them shall be such.
15. For they covered the surface of the whole earth, so that the land was darkened, and they ate every herb of the land, and all the fruit of the trees which the hail had left. There remained nothing green, either tree or herb of the field, through all the land of Mitzrayim.
16. Then Pharaoh called for Moshe and Aharon in haste, and he said, "I have sinned against YHWH your God, and against you.
17. Now therefore please forgive my sin again, and pray to YHWH your God, that he may also take away from me this death."
18. He went out from Pharaoh, and prayed to YHWH.
19. YHWH turned an exceeding strong west wind, which took up the locusts, and drove them into the Red Sea. There remained not one locust in all the borders of Mitzrayim.
20. But YHWH hardened Pharaoh's heart, and he didn't let the children of Israel go.
21. YHWH said to Moshe, "Stretch out your hand toward the heavens, that there may be darkness over the land of Mitzrayim, even darkness which may be felt."
22. Moshe stretched forth his hand toward the heavens, and there was a thick darkness in all the land of Mitzrayim three days.
23. They didn't see one another, neither did anyone rise from their place for three days; but all the children of Israel had light in their dwellings.
24. Pharaoh called to Moshe, and said, "Go, serve YHWH. Only let your flocks and your herds stay behind. Let your little ones also go with you."
25. Moshe said, "You must also give into our hand sacrifices and burnt offerings, that we may sacrifice to YHWH our God.
26. Our livestock also shall go with us. There shall not a hoof be left behind, for of it we must take to serve YHWH our God; and we don't know with what we must serve YHWH, until we come there."
27. But YHWH hardened Pharaoh's heart, and he wouldn't let them go.
28. Pharaoh said to him, "Get away from me! Be careful to see my face no more; for in the day you see my face you shall die!"
29. Moshe said, "You have spoken well. I will see your face again no more."

Exodus 11
1. YHWH said to Moshe, "Yet one plague more will I bring on Pharaoh, and on Mitzrayim; afterwards he will let you go. When he lets you go, he will surely thrust you out altogether.
2. Speak now in the ears of the people, and let them ask everyone of their neighbor, and every woman of her neighbor, jewels of silver, and jewels of gold."
3. YHWH gave the people favor in the sight of the Egyptians. Moreover the person Moshe was very great in the land of Mitzrayim, in the sight of Pharaoh's servants, and in the sight of the people.
4. Moshe said, "This is what YHWH says: 'About midnight I will go out into the midst of Mitzrayim,
5. and all the firstborn in the land of Mitzrayim shall die, from the firstborn of Pharaoh who sits on his throne, even to the firstborn of the female servant who is behind the mill; and all the firstborn of livestock.
6. There shall be a great cry throughout all the land of Mitzrayim, such as there has not been, nor shall be any more.
7. But against any of the children of Israel a dog won't even bark or move its tongue, against man or animal; that you may know that YHWH makes a distinction between the Egyptians and Israel.
8. All these your servants shall come down to me, and bow down themselves to me, saying, "Get out, with all the people who follow you;" and after that I will go out.'" He went out from Pharaoh in hot anger.
9. YHWH said to Moshe, "Pharaoh won't listen to you, that my wonders may be multiplied in the land of Mitzrayim."
10. Moshe and Aharon did all these wonders before Pharaoh, and YHWH hardened Pharaoh's heart, and he didn't let the children of Israel go out of his land.

Exodus 12
1. YHWH spoke to Moshe and Aharon in the land of Mitzrayim, saying,
2. "This month shall be to you the beginning of months. It shall be the first month of the year to you.
3. Speak to all the congregation of Israel, saying, 'On the tenth day of this month, they shall take to them everyone a lamb, according to their fathers' houses, a lamb for a household;
4. and if the household be too little for a lamb, then he and his neighbor next to his house shall take one according to the number of the souls; according to what everyone can eat you shall make your count for the lamb.
5. Your lamb shall be without blemish, a male a year old. You shall take it from the sheep, or from the goats:
6. and you shall keep it until the fourteenth day of the same month; and the whole assembly of the congregation of Israel shall kill it at evening.
7. They shall take some of the blood, and put it on the two doorposts and on the lintel, on the houses in which they shall eat it.
8. They shall eat the flesh in that night, roasted with fire, and unleavened bread. They shall eat it with bitter herbs.
9. Don't eat it raw, nor boiled at all with water, but roasted with fire; with its head, its legs and its inner parts.
10. You shall let nothing of it remain until the morning; but that which remains of it until the morning you shall burn with fire.
11. This is how you shall eat it: with your waist girded, your shoes on your feet, and your staff in your hand; and you shall eat it in haste: it is YHWH's Passover.
12. For I will go through the land of Mitzrayim in that night, and will strike all the firstborn in the land of Mitzrayim, both man and animal. Against all the gods of Mitzrayim I will execute judgments: I am YHWH.
13. The blood shall be to you for a token on the houses where you are: and when I see the blood, I will pass over you, and there shall no plague be on you to destroy you, when I strike the land of Mitzrayim.
14. This day shall be to you for a memorial, and you shall keep it a feast to YHWH: throughout your generations you shall keep it a feast by an ordinance forever.
15. "'Seven days shall you eat unleavened bread; even the first day you shall put away yeast out of your houses, for whoever eats leavened bread from the first day until the seventh day, that soul shall be cut off from Israel.
16. In the first day there shall be to you a holy convocation, and in the seventh day a holy convocation; no manner of work shall be done in them, except that which everyone must eat, that only may be done by you.
17. You shall observe the feast of unleavened bread; for in this same day have I brought your armies out of the land of Mitzrayim: therefore shall you observe this day throughout your generations by an ordinance forever.
18. In the first month, on the fourteenth day of the month at evening, you shall eat unleavened bread, until the twenty first day of the month at evening.
19. Seven days shall there be no yeast found in your houses, for whoever eats that which is leavened, that soul shall be cut off from the congregation of Israel, whether they be a foreigner, or one who is born in the land.
20. You shall eat nothing leavened. In all your habitations you shall eat unleavened bread.'"
21. Then Moshe called for all the elders of Israel, and said to them, "Draw out, and take lambs according to your families, and kill the Passover.
22. You shall take a bunch of hyssop, and dip it in the blood that is in the basin, and strike the lintel and the two doorposts with the blood that is in the basin; and none of you shall go out of the door of his house until the morning.
23. For YHWH will pass through to strike the Egyptians; and when he sees the blood on the lintel, and on the two doorposts, YHWH will pass over the door, and will not allow the destroyer to come in to your houses to strike you.
24. You shall observe this thing for an ordinance to you and to your sons forever.
25. It shall happen when you have come to the land which YHWH will give you, according as he has promised, that you shall keep this service.
26. It will happen, when your children ask you, 'What do you mean by this service?'
27. that you shall say, 'It is the sacrifice of YHWH's Passover, who passed over the houses of the children of Israel in Mitzrayim, when he struck the Egyptians, and spared our houses.'" The people bowed their heads and worshiped.
28. The children of Israel went and did so; as YHWH had commanded Moshe and Aharon, so they did.
29. It happened at midnight, that YHWH struck all the firstborn in the land of Mitzrayim, from the firstborn of Pharaoh who sat on his throne to the firstborn of the captive who was in the dungeon; and all the firstborn of livestock.
30. Pharaoh rose up in the night, he, and all his servants, and all the Egyptians; and there was a great cry in Mitzrayim, for there was not a house where there was not one dead.
31. He called for Moshe and Aharon by night, and said, "Rise up, get out from among my people, both you and the children of Israel; and go, serve YHWH, as you have said!
32. Take both your flocks and your herds, as you have said, and be gone; and bless me also!"
33. The Egyptians were urgent with the people, to send them out of the land in haste, for they said, "We are all dead men."
34. The people took their dough before it was leavened, their kneading troughs being bound up in their clothes on their shoulders.
35. The children of Israel did according to the word of Moshe; and they asked of the Egyptians jewels of silver, and jewels of gold, and clothing.
36. YHWH gave the people favor in the sight of the Egyptians, so that they let them have what they asked. They despoiled the Egyptians.
37. The children of Israel traveled from Rameses to Succoth, about six hundred thousand on foot who were men, besides children.
38. A mixed multitude went up also with them, with flocks, herds, and even very much livestock.
39. They baked unleavened cakes of the dough which they brought forth out of Mitzrayim; for it wasn't leavened, because they were thrust out of Mitzrayim, and couldn't wait, neither had they prepared for themselves any food.
40. Now the time that the children of Israel lived in Mitzrayim was four hundred thirty years.
41. It happened at the end of four hundred thirty years, even the same day it happened, that all the armies of YHWH went out from the land of Mitzrayim.
42. It is a night to be much observed to YHWH for bringing them out from the land of Mitzrayim. This is that night of YHWH, to be much observed of all the children of Israel throughout their generations.
43. YHWH said to Moshe and Aharon, "This is the ordinance of the Passover. There shall no foreigner eat of it,
44. but everyone's servant who is bought for money, when you have circumcised him, then shall they eat of it.
45. A foreigner and a hired servant shall not eat of it.
46. In one house shall it be eaten; you shall not carry forth anything of the flesh abroad out of the house; neither shall you break a bone of it.
47. All the congregation of Israel shall keep it.
48. When a stranger shall live as a foreigner with you, and will keep the Passover to YHWH, let all his males be circumcised, and then let him come near and keep it; and they shall be as one who is born in the land: but no uncircumcised person shall eat of it.
49. One law shall be to the one who is born at home, and to the stranger who lives as a foreigner among you."
50. Thus did all the children of Israel. As YHWH commanded Moshe and Aharon, so they did.
51. It happened the same day, that YHWH brought the children of Israel out of the land of Mitzrayim by their armies.

Exodus 13
1. YHWH spoke to Moshe, saying,
2. "Sanctify to me all of the firstborn, whatever opens the womb among the children of Israel, both of man and of animal. It is mine."
3. Moshe said to the people, "Remember this day, in which you came out from Mitzrayim, out of the house of bondage; for by strength of hand YHWH brought you out from this place. No leavened bread shall be eaten.
4. This day you go forth in the month Abib.
5. It shall be, when YHWH shall bring you into the land of the Canaanite, and the Hittite, and the Amorite, and the Hivite, and the Jebusite, which he swore to your fathers to give you, a land flowing with milk and honey, that you shall keep this service in this month.
6. Seven days you shall eat unleavened bread, and in the seventh day shall be a feast to YHWH.
7. Unleavened bread shall be eaten throughout the seven days; and no leavened bread shall be seen with you, neither shall there be yeast seen with you, in all your borders.
8. You shall tell your son in that day, saying, 'It is because of that which YHWH did for me when I came forth out of Mitzrayim.'
9. It shall be for a sign to you on your hand, and for a memorial between your eyes, that the law of YHWH may be in your mouth; for with a strong hand YHWH has brought you out of Mitzrayim.
10. You shall therefore keep this ordinance in its season from year to year.
11. "It shall be, when YHWH shall bring you into the land of the Canaanite, as he swore to you and to your fathers, and shall give it you,
12. that you shall set apart to YHWH all that opens the womb, and every firstborn which you have that comes from an animal. The males shall be YHWH's.
13. Every firstborn of a donkey you shall redeem with a lamb; and if you will not redeem it, then you shall break its neck; and you shall redeem all the firstborn of man among your sons.
14. It shall be, when your son asks you in time to come, saying, 'What is this?' that you shall tell him, 'By strength of hand YHWH brought us out from Mitzrayim, from the house of bondage;
15. and it happened, when Pharaoh would hardly let us go, that YHWH killed all the firstborn in the land of Mitzrayim, both the firstborn of man, and the firstborn of animal. Therefore I sacrifice to YHWH all that opens the womb, being males; but all the firstborn of my sons I redeem.'
16. It shall be for a sign on your hand, and for symbols between your eyes: for by strength of hand YHWH brought us forth out of Mitzrayim."
17. It happened, when Pharaoh had let the people go, that Elohim didn't lead them by the way of the land of the Philistines, although that was near; for Elohim said, "Lest perhaps the people change their minds when they see war, and they return to Mitzrayim;"
18. but Elohim led the people around by the way of the wilderness by the Red Sea; and the children of Israel went up armed out of the land of Mitzrayim.
19. Moshe took the bones of Yosef with him, for he had made the children of Israel swear, saying, "Elohim will surely visit you, and you shall carry up my bones away from here with you."
20. They took their journey from Succoth, and encamped in Etham, in the edge of the wilderness.
21. YHWH went before them by day in a pillar of cloud, to lead them on their way, and by night in a pillar of fire, to give them light, that they might go by day and by night:
22. the pillar of cloud by day, and the pillar of fire by night, didn't depart from before the people.

Exodus 14
1. YHWH spoke to Moshe, saying,
2. "Speak to the children of Israel, that they turn back and encamp before Pihahiroth, between Migdol and the sea, before Baal Zephon. You shall encamp opposite it by the sea.
3. Pharaoh will say of the children of Israel, 'They are entangled in the land. The wilderness has shut them in.'
4. I will harden Pharaoh's heart, and he will follow after them; and I will get honor over Pharaoh, and over all his armies; and the Egyptians shall know that I am YHWH." They did so.
5. It was told the king of Mitzrayim that the people had fled; and the heart of Pharaoh and of his servants was changed towards the people, and they said, "What is this we have done, that we have let Israel go from serving us?"
6. He made ready his chariot, and took his army with him;
7. and he took six hundred chosen chariots, and all the chariots of Mitzrayim, and captains over all of them.
8. YHWH hardened the heart of Pharaoh king of Mitzrayim, and he pursued after the children of Israel; for the children of Israel went out with a high hand.
9. The Egyptians pursued after them: all the horses and chariots of Pharaoh, his horsemen, and his army; and overtook them encamping by the sea, beside Pihahiroth, before Baal Zephon.
10. When Pharaoh drew near, the children of Israel lifted up their eyes, and behold, the Egyptians were marching after them; and they were very afraid. The children of Israel cried out to YHWH.
11. They said to Moshe, "Because there were no graves in Mitzrayim, have you taken us away to die in the wilderness? Why have you treated us this way, to bring us forth out of Mitzrayim?
12. Isn't this the word that we spoke to you in Mitzrayim, saying, 'Leave us alone, that we may serve the Egyptians?' For it were better for us to serve the Egyptians, than that we should die in the wilderness."
13. Moshe said to the people, "Don't be afraid. Stand still, and see the salvation of YHWH, which he will work for you today: for the Egyptians whom you have seen today, you shall never see them again.
14. YHWH will fight for you, and you shall be still."
15. YHWH said to Moshe, "Why do you cry to me? Speak to the children of Israel, that they go forward.
16. Lift up your rod, and stretch out your hand over the sea, and divide it: and the children of Israel shall go into the midst of the sea on dry ground.
17. I, behold, I will harden the hearts of the Egyptians, and they shall go in after them: and I will get myself honor over Pharaoh, and over all his armies, over his chariots, and over his horsemen.
18. The Egyptians shall know that I am YHWH, when I have gotten myself honor over Pharaoh, over his chariots, and over his horsemen."
19. The angel of Elohim, who went before the camp of Israel, moved and went behind them; and the pillar of cloud moved from before them, and stood behind them.
20. It came between the camp of Mitzrayim and the camp of Israel; and there was the cloud and the darkness, yet gave it light by night: and the one didn't come near the other all the night.
21. Moshe stretched out his hand over the sea, and YHWH caused the sea to go back by a strong east wind all the night, and made the sea dry land, and the waters were divided.
22. The children of Israel went into the midst of the sea on the dry ground, and the waters were a wall to them on their right hand, and on their left.
23. The Egyptians pursued, and went in after them into the midst of the sea: all of Pharaoh's horses, his chariots, and his horsemen.
24. It happened in the morning watch, that YHWH looked out on the Egyptian army through the pillar of fire and of cloud, and confused the Egyptian army.
25. He took off their chariot wheels, and they drove them heavily; so that the Egyptians said, "Let's flee from the face of Israel, for YHWH fights for them against the Egyptians!"
26. YHWH said to Moshe, "Stretch out your hand over the sea, that the waters may come again on the Egyptians, on their chariots, and on their horsemen."
27. Moshe stretched out his hand over the sea, and the sea returned to its strength when the morning appeared; and the Egyptians fled against it. YHWH overthrew the Egyptians in the midst of the sea.
28. The waters returned, and covered the chariots and the horsemen, even all Pharaoh's army that went in after them into the sea. There remained not so much as one of them.
29. But the children of Israel walked on dry land in the midst of the sea, and the waters were a wall to them on their right hand, and on their left.
30. Thus YHWH saved Israel that day out of the hand of the Egyptians; and Israel saw the Egyptians dead on the seashore.
31. Israel saw the great work which YHWH did to the Egyptians, and the people revered YHWH; and they believed in YHWH, and in his servant Moshe.

Exodus 15
1. Then Moshe and the children of Israel sang this song to YHWH, and said, "I will sing to YHWH, for he has triumphed gloriously. The horse and his rider he has thrown into the sea.
2. Yah is my strength and song. He has become my salvation. This is my God, and I will praise him; my father's Elohim, and I will exalt him.
3. YHWH is a warrior. YHWH is his name.
4. He has cast Pharaoh's chariots and his army into the sea. His chosen captains are sunk in the Red Sea.
5. The deeps cover them. They went down into the depths like a stone.
6. Your right hand, YHWH, is glorious in power. Your right hand, YHWH, dashes the enemy in pieces.
7. In the greatness of your excellency, you overthrow those who rise up against you. You send forth your wrath. It consumes them as stubble.
8. With the blast of your nostrils, the waters were piled up. The floods stood upright as a heap. The deeps were congealed in the heart of the sea.
9. The enemy said, 'I will pursue. I will overtake. I will divide the spoil. My desire shall be satisfied on them. I will draw my sword, my hand shall destroy them.'
10. You blew with your wind. The sea covered them. They sank like lead in the mighty waters.
11. Who is like you, YHWH, among the gods? Who is like you, glorious in holiness, fearful in praises, doing wonders?
12. You stretched out your right hand. The earth swallowed them.
13. "You, in your loving kindness, have led the people that you have redeemed. You have guided them in your strength to your holy habitation.
14. The peoples have heard. They tremble. Pangs have taken hold on the inhabitants of Philistia.
15. Then the chiefs of Edom were dismayed. Trembling takes hold of the mighty men of Moab. All the inhabitants of Canaan are melted away.
16. Terror and dread falls on them. By the greatness of your arm they are as still as a stone--until your people pass over, YHWH, until the people pass over who you have purchased.
17. You shall bring them in, and plant them in the mountain of your inheritance, the place, YHWH, which you have made for yourself to dwell in; the sanctuary, YHWH, which your hands have established.
18. YHWH shall reign forever and ever."
19. For the horses of Pharaoh went in with his chariots and with his horsemen into the sea, and YHWH brought back the waters of the sea on them; but the children of Israel walked on dry land in the midst of the sea.
20. Miryam the prophetess, the sister of Aharon, took a tambourine in her hand; and all the women went out after her with tambourines and with dances.
21. Miryam answered them, "Sing to YHWH, for he has triumphed gloriously. The horse and his rider he has thrown into the sea."
22. Moshe led Israel onward from the Red Sea, and they went out into the wilderness of Shur; and they went three days in the wilderness, and found no water.
23. When they came to Marah, they couldn't drink from the waters of Marah, for they were bitter. Therefore the name of it was called Marah.
24. The people murmured against Moshe, saying, "What shall we drink?"
25. Then he cried to YHWH. YHWH showed him a tree, and he threw it into the waters, and the waters were made sweet. There he made a statute and an ordinance for them, and there he tested them;
26. and he said, "If you will diligently listen to the voice of YHWH your God, and will do that which is right in his eyes, and will pay attention to his commandments, and keep all his statutes, I will put none of the diseases on you, which I have put on the Egyptians; for I am YHWH who heals you."
27. They came to Elim, where there were twelve springs of water, and seventy palm trees: and they encamped there by the waters.

Exodus 16
1. They took their journey from Elim, and all the congregation of the children of Israel came to the wilderness of Sin, which is between Elim and Sinai, on the fifteenth day of the second month after their departing out of the land of Mitzrayim.
2. The whole congregation of the children of Israel murmured against Moshe and against Aharon in the wilderness;
3. and the children of Israel said to them, "We wish that we had died by the hand of YHWH in the land of Mitzrayim, when we sat by the meat pots, when we ate our fill of bread, for you have brought us out into this wilderness, to kill this whole assembly with hunger."
4. Then said YHWH to Moshe, "Behold, I will rain bread from the heavens for you, and the people shall go out and gather a day's portion every day, that I may test them, whether they will walk in my law, or not.
5. It shall come to pass on the sixth day, that they shall prepare that which they bring in, and it shall be twice as much as they gather daily."
6. Moshe and Aharon said to all the children of Israel, "At evening, then you shall know that YHWH has brought you out from the land of Mitzrayim;
7. and in the morning, then you shall see the glory of YHWH; because he hears your murmurings against YHWH. Who are we, that you murmur against us?"
8. Moshe said, "Now YHWH shall give you meat to eat in the evening, and in the morning bread to satisfy you; because YHWH hears your murmurings which you murmur against him. And who are we? Your murmurings are not against us, but against YHWH."
9. Moshe said to Aharon, "Tell all the congregation of the children of Israel, 'Come near before YHWH, for he has heard your murmurings.'"
10. It happened, as Aharon spoke to the whole congregation of the children of Israel, that they looked toward the wilderness, and behold, the glory of YHWH appeared in the cloud.
11. YHWH spoke to Moshe, saying,
12. "I have heard the murmurings of the children of Israel. Speak to them, saying, 'At evening you shall eat meat, and in the morning you shall be filled with bread: and you shall know that I am YHWH your God.'"
13. It happened at evening that quail came up and covered the camp; and in the morning the dew lay around the camp.
14. When the dew that lay had gone, behold, on the surface of the wilderness was a small round thing, small as the frost on the ground.
15. When the children of Israel saw it, they said one to another, "What is it?" For they didn't know what it was. Moshe said to them, "It is the bread which YHWH has given you to eat."
16. This is the thing which YHWH has commanded: "Gather of it everyone according to their eating; an omer a head, according to the number of your persons, shall you take it, everyone for those who are in their tent."
17. The children of Israel did so, and gathered some more, some less.
18. When they measured it with an omer, the one who gathered much had nothing over, and the one who gathered little had no lack. They gathered everyone according to their eating.
19. Moshe said to them, "Let no one leave of it until the morning."
20. Notwithstanding they didn't listen to Moshe, but some of them left of it until the morning, and it bred worms, and became foul: and Moshe was angry with them.
21. They gathered it morning by morning, everyone according to their eating. When the sun grew hot, it melted.
22. It happened that on the sixth day they gathered twice as much bread, two omers for each one, and all the rulers of the congregation came and told Moshe.
23. He said to them, "This is that which YHWH has spoken, 'Tomorrow is a solemn rest, a holy Sabbath to YHWH. Bake that which you want to bake, and boil that which you want to boil; and all that remains over lay up for yourselves to be kept until the morning.'"
24. They laid it up until the morning, as Moshe asked, and it didn't become foul, neither was there any worm in it.
25. Moshe said, "Eat that today, for today is a Sabbath to YHWH. Today you shall not find it in the field.
26. Six days you shall gather it, but on the seventh day is the Sabbath. In it there shall be none."
27. It happened on the seventh day, that some of the people went out to gather, and they found none.
28. YHWH said to Moshe, "How long do you refuse to keep my commandments and my laws?
29. Behold, because YHWH has given you the Sabbath, therefore he gives you on the sixth day the bread of two days. Everyone stay in their place. Let no one go out of their place on the seventh day."
30. So the people rested on the seventh day.
31. The house of Israel called the name of it Manna, and it was like coriander seed, white; and its taste was like wafers with honey.
32. Moshe said, "This is the thing which YHWH has commanded, 'Let an omer-full of it be kept throughout your generations, that they may see the bread with which I fed you in the wilderness, when I brought you forth from the land of Mitzrayim.'"
33. Moshe said to Aharon, "Take a pot, and put an omer-full of manna in it, and lay it up before YHWH, to be kept throughout your generations."
34. As YHWH commanded Moshe, so Aharon laid it up before the Testimony, to be kept.
35. The children of Israel ate the manna forty years, until they came to an inhabited land. They ate the manna until they came to the borders of the land of Canaan.
36. Now an omer is the tenth part of an ephah.

Exodus 17
1. All the congregation of the children of Israel traveled from the wilderness of Sin, by their journeys, according to YHWH's commandment, and encamped in Rephidim; but there was no water for the people to drink.
2. Therefore the people quarreled with Moshe, and said, "Give us water to drink." Moshe said to them, "Why do you quarrel with me? Why do you test YHWH?"
3. The people were thirsty for water there; and the people murmured against Moshe, and said, "Why have you brought us up out of Mitzrayim, to kill us, our children, and our livestock with thirst?"
4. Moshe cried to YHWH, saying, "What shall I do with these people? They are almost ready to stone me."
5. YHWH said to Moshe, "Walk on before the people, and take the elders of Israel with you, and take the rod in your hand with which you struck the Nile, and go.
6. Behold, I will stand before you there on the rock in Horeb. You shall strike the rock, and water will come out of it, that the people may drink." Moshe did so in the sight of the elders of Israel.
7. He called the name of the place Massah, and Meribah, because the children of Israel quarreled, and because they tested YHWH, saying, "Is YHWH among us, or not?"
8. Then Amalek came and fought with Israel in Rephidim.
9. Moshe said to Yehoshua, "Choose men for us, and go out, fight with Amalek. Tomorrow I will stand on the top of the hill with Elohim's rod in my hand."
10. So Yehoshua did as Moshe had told him, and fought with Amalek; and Moshe, Aharon, and Hur went up to the top of the hill.
11. It happened, when Moshe held up his hand, that Israel prevailed; and when he let down his hand, Amalek prevailed.
12. But Moshe' hands were heavy; and they took a stone, and put it under him, and he sat on it. Aharon and Hur held up his hands, the one on the one side, and the other on the other side. His hands were steady until sunset.
13. Yehoshua defeated Amalek and his people with the edge of the sword.
14. YHWH said to Moshe, "Write this for a memorial in a book, and rehearse it in the ears of Yehoshua: that I will utterly blot out the memory of Amalek from under the heavens."
15. Moshe built an altar, and called the name of it YHWH our Banner.
16. He said, "Yah has sworn: 'YHWH will have war with Amalek from generation to generation.'"

Exodus 18
1. Now Jethro, the priest of Midian, Moshe' father-in-law, heard of all that Elohim had done for Moshe, and for Israel his people, how that YHWH had brought Israel out of Mitzrayim.
2. Jethro, Moshe' father-in-law, received Zipporah, Moshe' wife, after he had sent her away,
3. and her two sons. The name of one son was Gershom, for Moshe said, "I have lived as a foreigner in a foreign land".
4. The name of the other was Eliezer, for he said, "My father's Elohim was my help and delivered me from Pharaoh's sword."
5. Jethro, Moshe' father-in-law, came with his sons and his wife to Moshe into the wilderness where he was encamped, at the Mountain of Elohim.
6. He said to Moshe, I, your father-in-law Jethro, have come to you with your wife, and her two sons with her.
7. Moshe went out to meet his father-in-law, and bowed and kissed him. They asked each other of their welfare, and they came into the tent.
8. Moshe told his father-in-law all that YHWH had done to Pharaoh and to the Egyptians for Israel's sake, all the hardships that had come on them on the way, and how YHWH delivered them.
9. Jethro rejoiced for all the goodness which YHWH had done to Israel, in that he had delivered them out of the hand of the Egyptians.
10. Jethro said, "Blessed be YHWH, who has delivered you out of the hand of the Egyptians, and out of the hand of Pharaoh; who has delivered the people from under the hand of the Egyptians.
11. Now I know that YHWH is greater than all gods because of the thing in which they dealt arrogantly against them."
12. Jethro, Moshe' father-in-law, took a burnt offering and sacrifices for Elohim. Aharon came with all of the elders of Israel, to eat bread with Moshe' father-in-law before Elohim.
13. It happened on the next day, that Moshe sat to judge the people, and the people stood around Moshe from the morning to the evening.
14. When Moshe' father-in-law saw all that he did to the people, he said, "What is this thing that you do for the people? Why do you sit alone, and all the people stand around you from morning to evening?"
15. Moshe said to his father-in-law, "Because the people come to me to inquire of Elohim.
16. When they have a matter, they come to me, and I judge between a person and their neighbor, and I make them know the statutes of Elohim, and their laws."
17. Moshe' father-in-law said to him, "The thing that you do is not good.
18. You will surely wear away, both you, and this people that is with you; for the thing is too heavy for you. You are not able to perform it yourself alone.
19. Listen now to my voice. I will give you counsel, and Elohim be with you. You represent the people before Elohim, and bring the causes to Elohim.
20. You shall teach them the statutes and the laws, and shall show them the way in which they must walk, and the work that they must do.
21. Moreover you shall provide out of all the people able men, such as revere God: men of truth, hating unjust gain; and place such over them, to be rulers of thousands, rulers of hundreds, rulers of fifties, and rulers of tens.
22. Let them judge the people at all times. It shall be that every great matter they shall bring to you, but every small matter they shall judge themselves. So shall it be easier for you, and they shall share the load with you.
23. If you will do this thing, and Elohim commands you so, then you will be able to endure, and all of these people also will go to their place in peace."
24. So Moshe listened to the voice of his father-in-law, and did all that he had said.
25. Moshe chose able men out of all Israel, and made them heads over the people, rulers of thousands, rulers of hundreds, rulers of fifties, and rulers of tens.
26. They judged the people at all times. They brought the hard causes to Moshe, but every small matter they judged themselves.
27. Moshe let his father-in-law depart, and he went his way into his own land.

Exodus 19
1. In the third month after the children of Israel had gone forth out of the land of Mitzrayim, on that same day they came into the wilderness of Sinai.
2. When they had departed from Rephidim, and had come to the wilderness of Sinai, they encamped in the wilderness; and there Israel encamped before the mountain.
3. Moshe went up to Elohim, and YHWH called to him out of the mountain, saying, "This is what you shall tell the house of Ya'akov, and tell the children of Israel:
4. 'You have seen what I did to the Egyptians, and how I bore you on eagles' wings, and brought you to myself.
5. Now therefore, if you will indeed obey my voice, and keep my covenant, then you shall be my own possession from among all peoples; for all the earth is mine;
6. and you shall be to me a kingdom of priests, and a holy nation.' These are the words which you shall speak to the children of Israel."
7. Moshe came and called for the elders of the people, and set before them all these words which YHWH commanded him.
8. All the people answered together, and said, "All that YHWH has spoken we will do." Moshe reported the words of the people to YHWH.
9. YHWH said to Moshe, "Behold, I come to you in a thick cloud, that the people may hear when I speak with you, and may also believe you forever." Moshe told the words of the people to YHWH.
10. YHWH said to Moshe, "Go to the people, and sanctify them today and tomorrow, and let them wash their garments,
11. and be ready against the third day; for on the third day YHWH will come down in the sight of all the people on Mount Sinai.
12. You shall set bounds to the people round about, saying, 'Be careful that you don't go up onto the mountain, or touch its border. Whoever touches the mountain shall be surely put to death.
13. No hand shall touch him, but he shall surely be stoned or shot through; whether it is animal or man, he shall not live.' When the trumpet sounds long, they shall come up to the mountain."
14. Moshe went down from the mountain to the people, and sanctified the people; and they werehed their clothes.
15. He said to the people, "Be ready by the third day. Don't have sexual relations with a woman."
16. It happened on the third day, when it was morning, that there were thunders and lightnings, and a thick cloud on the mountain, and the sound of an exceedingly loud trumpet; and all the people who were in the camp trembled.
17. Moshe led the people out of the camp to meet Elohim; and they stood at the lower part of the mountain.
18. Mount Sinai, the whole of it, smoked, because YHWH descended on it in fire; and its smoke ascended like the smoke of a furnace, and the whole mountain quaked greatly.
19. When the sound of the trumpet grew louder and louder, Moshe spoke, and Elohim answered him by a voice.
20. YHWH came down on Mount Sinai, to the top of the mountain. YHWH called Moshe to the top of the mountain, and Moshe went up.
21. YHWH said to Moshe, "Go down, charge the people, lest they break through to YHWH to gaze, and many of them perish.
22. Let the priests also, who come near to YHWH, sanctify themselves, lest YHWH break forth on them."
23. Moshe said to YHWH, "The people can't come up to Mount Sinai, for you charged us, saying, 'Set bounds around the mountain, and sanctify it.'"
24. YHWH said to him, "Go down and you shall bring Aharon up with you, but don't let the priests and the people break through to come up to YHWH, lest he break forth on them."
25. So Moshe went down to the people, and told them.

Exodus 20
1. Elohim spoke all these words, saying,
2. "I am YHWH your God, who brought you out of the land of Mitzrayim, out of the house of bondage.
3. You shall have no other gods before me.
4. "You shall not make for yourselves an idol, nor any image of anything that is in the heavens above, or that is in the earth beneath, or that is in the water under the earth:
5. you shall not bow yourself down to them, nor serve them, for I, YHWH your God, am a jealous Elohim, visiting the iniquity of the fathers on the children, on the third and on the fourth generation of those who hate me,
6. and showing loving kindness to thousands of those who love me and keep my commandments.
7. "You shall not take the name of YHWH your God in vain, for YHWH will not hold him guiltless who takes his name in vain.
8. "Remember the Sabbath day, to keep it holy.
9. You shall labor six days, and do all your work,
10. but the seventh day is a Sabbath to YHWH your God. You shall not do any work in it, you, nor your son, nor your daughter, your male servant, nor your female servant, nor your livestock, nor your stranger who is within your gates;
11. for in six days YHWH made heavens and earth, the sea, and all that is in them, and rested the seventh day; therefore YHWH blessed the Sabbath day, and made it holy.
12. "Honor your father and your mother, that your days may be long in the land which YHWH your God gives you.
13. "You shall not murder.
14. "You shall not commit adultery.
15. "You shall not steal.
16. "You shall not give false testimony against your neighbor.
17. "You shall not covet your neighbor's house. You shall not covet your neighbor's wife, nor his male servant, nor his female servant, nor his ox, nor his donkey, nor anything that is your neighbor's."
18. All the people perceived the thunderings, the lightnings, the sound of the trumpet, and the mountain smoking. When the people saw it, they trembled, and stayed at a distance.
19. They said to Moshe, "Speak with us yourself, and we will listen; but don't let Elohim speak with us, lest we die."
20. Moshe said to the people, "Don't be afraid, for Elohim has come to test you, and that his fear may be before you, that you won't sin."
21. The people stayed at a distance, and Moshe drew near to the thick darkness where Elohim was.
22. YHWH said to Moshe, "This is what you shall tell the children of Israel: 'You yourselves have seen that I have talked with you from heavens.
23. You shall most certainly not make alongside of me gods of silver, or gods of gold for yourselves.
24. You shall make an altar of earth for me, and shall sacrifice on it your burnt offerings and your peace offerings, your sheep and your oxen. In every place where I record my name I will come to you and I will bless you.
25. If you make me an altar of stone, you shall not build it of hewn stones; for if you lift up your tool on it, you have polluted it.
26. Neither shall you go up by steps to my altar, that your nakedness may not be exposed to it.'

Exodus 21
1. "Now these are the ordinances which you shall set before them.
2. "If you buy a Hebrew servant, he shall serve six years and in the seventh he shall go out free without paying anything.
3. If he comes in by himself, he shall go out by himself. If he is married, then his wife shall go out with him.
4. If his master gives him a wife and she bears him sons or daughters, the wife and her children shall be her master's, and he shall go out by himself.
5. But if the servant shall plainly say, 'I love my master, my wife, and my children. I will not go out free;'
6. then his master shall bring him to Elohim, and shall bring him to the door or to the doorpost, and his master shall bore his ear through with an awl, and he shall serve him for ever.
7. "If someone sells their daughter to be a female servant, she shall not go out as the male servants do.
8. If she doesn't please her master, who has married her to himself, then he shall let her be redeemed. He shall have no right to sell her to a foreign people, seeing he has dealt deceitfully with her.
9. If he marries her to his son, he shall deal with her after the manner of daughters.
10. If he takes another wife to himself, he shall not diminish her food, her clothing, and her marital rights.
11. If he doesn't do these three things for her, she may go free without paying any money.
12. "One who strikes a person so that they die shall surely be put to death,
13. but not if it is unintentional, but Elohim allows it to happen: then I will appoint you a place where he shall flee.
14. If someone schemes and comes presumptuously on their neighbor to kill him, you shall take him from my altar, that they may die.
15. "Anyone who attacks their father or their mother shall be surely put to death.
16. "Anyone who kidnaps someone and sells him, or if they are found in their hand, they shall surely be put to death.
17. "Anyone who curses their father or their mother shall surely be put to death.
18. "If men quarrel and one strikes the other with a stone, or with his fist, and he doesn't die, but is confined to bed;
19. if they rise again and walks around with their staff, then the one who struck him shall be cleared: only they shall pay for the loss of their time, and shall provide for their healing until they are thoroughly healed.
20. "If someone strikes their servant or their maid with a rod, and they die under their hand, they shall surely be punished.
21. Notwithstanding, if he gets up after a day or two, he shall not be punished, for he is his property.
22. "If men fight and hurt a pregnant woman so that she gives birth prematurely, and yet no harm follows, he shall be surely fined as much as the woman's husband demands and the judges allow.
23. But if any harm follows, then you must take life for life,
24. eye for eye, tooth for tooth, hand for hand, foot for foot,
25. burning for burning, wound for wound, and bruise for bruise.
26. "If someone strikes their servant's eye, or their maid's eye, and destroys it, they shall let him go free for their eye's sake.
27. If he strikes out his male servant's tooth, or his female servant's tooth, he shall let him go free for his tooth's sake.
28. "If a bull gores a person or a woman to death, the bull shall surely be stoned, and its flesh shall not be eaten; but the owner of the bull shall not be held responsible.
29. But if the bull had a habit of goring in the past, and it has been testified to its owner, and they have not kept it in, but it has killed a person or a woman, the bull shall be stoned, and its owner shall also be put to death.
30. If a ransom is laid on him, then he shall give for the redemption of his life whatever is laid on him.
31. Whether it has gored a son or has gored a daughter, according to this judgment it shall be done to him.
32. If the bull gores a male servant or a female servant, thirty shekels of silver shall be given to their master, and the ox shall be stoned.
33. "If someone opens a pit, or if someone digs a pit and doesn't cover it, and a bull or a donkey falls into it,
34. the owner of the pit shall make it good. He shall give money to its owner, and the dead animal shall be his.
35. "If one a person's bull injures another's, so that it dies, then they shall sell the live bull, and divide its price; and they shall also divide the dead animal.
36. Or if it is known that the bull was in the habit of goring in the past, and its owner has not kept it in, he shall surely pay bull for bull, and the dead animal shall be his own.

Exodus 22
1. "If someone steals an ox or a sheep, and kills it, or sells it; he shall pay five oxen for an ox, and four sheep for a sheep.
2. If the thief is found breaking in, and is struck so that he dies, there shall be no guilt of bloodshed for him.
3. If the sun has risen on him, there shall be guilt of bloodshed for him; he shall make restitution. If he has nothing, then he shall be sold for his theft.
4. If the stolen property is found in his hand alive, whether it is ox, donkey, or sheep, he shall pay double.
5. "If someone causes a field or vineyard to be eaten, and lets their animal loose, and it grazes in another person's field, they shall make restitution from the best of their own field, and from the best of their own vineyard.
6. "If fire breaks out, and catches in thorns so that the shocks of grain, or the standing grain, or the field are consumed; the one who kindled the fire shall surely make restitution.
7. "If someone delivers to their neighbor money or stuff to keep, and it is stolen out of the person's house; if the thief is found, he shall pay double.
8. If the thief isn't found, then the master of the house shall come near to Elohim, to find out if he hasn't put his hand to his neighbor's goods.
9. For every matter of trespass, whether it be for ox, for donkey, for sheep, for clothing, or for any kind of lost thing, about which one says, 'This is mine,' the cause of both parties shall come before Elohim. The one whom Elohim condemns shall pay double to his neighbor.
10. "If someone delivers to their neighbor a donkey, an ox, a sheep, or any animal to keep, and it dies or is injured, or driven away, no one seeing it;
11. the oath of YHWH shall be between them both, whether he hasn't put his hand to his neighbor's goods; and the owner of it shall accept it, and he shall not make restitution.
12. But if it is stolen from him, he shall make restitution to the owner of it.
13. If it is torn in pieces, let him bring it for evidence. He shall not make good that which was torn.
14. "If someone borrows anything of their neighbor's, and it is injured, or dies, the owner of it not being with it, they shall surely make restitution.
15. If the owner of it is with it, he shall not make it good. If it is a leased thing, it came for its lease.
16. "If someone entices a virgin who isn't pledged to be married, and lies with her, he shall surely pay a dowry for her to be his wife.
17. If her father utterly refuses to give her to him, he shall pay money according to the dowry of virgins.
18. "You shall not allow a sorceress to live.
19. "Whoever has sex with an animal shall surely be put to death.
20. "The one who sacrifices to any god, except to YHWH only, shall be utterly destroyed.
21. "You shall not wrong an alien, neither shall you oppress him, for you were aliens in the land of Mitzrayim.
22. "You shall not take advantage of any widow or fatherless child.
23. If you take advantage of them at all, and they cry at all to me, I will surely hear their cry;
24. and my wrath will grow hot, and I will kill you with the sword; and your wives shall be widows, and your children fatherless.
25. "If you lend money to any of my people with you who is poor, you shall not be to him as a creditor; neither shall you charge him interest.
26. If you take your neighbor's garment as collateral, you shall restore it to him before the sun goes down,
27. for that is his only covering, it is his garment for his skin. What would he sleep in? It will happen, when he cries to me, that I will hear, for I am gracious.
28. "You shall not blaspheme Elohim, nor curse a ruler of your people.
29. "You shall not delay to offer from your harvest and from the outflow of your presses. "You shall give the firstborn of your sons to me.
30. You shall do likewise with your oxen and with your sheep. Seven days it shall be with its mother, then on the eighth day you shall give it me.
31. "You shall be holy men to me, therefore you shall not eat any flesh that is torn by animals in the field. You shall cast it to the dogs.

Exodus 23
1. "You shall not spread a false report. Don't join your hand with the wicked to be a malicious witness.
2. You shall not follow a crowd to do brokenness; neither shall you testify in court to side with a multitude to pervert justice;
3. neither shall you favor a poor man in his cause.
4. "If you meet your enemy's ox or his donkey going astray, you shall surely bring it back to him again.
5. If you see the donkey of the one who hates you fallen down under their burden, don't leave him, you shall surely help him with it.
6. "You shall not deny justice to your poor people in their lawsuits.
7. "Keep far from a false charge, and don't kill the innocent and righteous: for I will not justify the wicked.
8. "You shall take no bribe, for a bribe blinds those who have sight and perverts the words of the righteous.
9. "You shall not oppress an alien, for you know the heart of an alien, seeing you were aliens in the land of Mitzrayim.
10. "For six years you shall sow your land, and shall gather in its increase,
11. but the seventh year you shall let it rest and lie fallow, that the poor of your people may eat; and what they leave the animal of the field shall eat. In like manner you shall deal with your vineyard and with your olive grove.
12. "Six days you shall do your work, and on the seventh day you shall rest, that your ox and your donkey may have rest, and the son of your handmaid, and the alien may be refreshed.
13. "Be careful to do all things that I have said to you; and don't invoke the name of other gods, neither let them be heard out of your mouth.
14. "You shall observe a feast to me three times a year.
15. You shall observe the feast of unleavened bread. Seven days you shall eat unleavened bread, as I commanded you, at the time appointed in the month Abib (for in it you came out from Mitzrayim), and no one shall appear before me empty.
16. And the feast of harvest, the first fruits of your labors, which you sow in the field: and the feast of harvest, at the end of the year, when you gather in your labors out of the field.
17. Three times in the year all your males shall appear before YHWH God.
18. "You shall not offer the blood of my sacrifice with leavened bread, neither shall the fat of my feast remain all night until the morning.
19. The first of the first fruits of your ground you shall bring into the house of YHWH your God. "You shall not boil a kid in its mother's milk.
20. "Behold, I send an angel before you, to keep you by the way, and to bring you into the place which I have prepared.
21. Pay attention to him, and listen to his voice. Don't provoke him, for he will not pardon your disobedience, for my name is in him.
22. But if you indeed listen to his voice, and do all that I speak, then I will be an enemy to your enemies, and an adversary to your adversaries.
23. For my angel shall go before you, and bring you in to the Amorite, the Hittite, the Perizzite, the Canaanite, the Hivite, and the Jebusite; and I will cut them off.
24. You shall not bow down to their gods, nor serve them, nor follow their practices, but you shall utterly overthrow them and demolish their pillars.
25. You shall serve YHWH your God, and he will bless your bread and your water, and I will take sickness away from your midst.
26. No one will miscarry or be barren in your land. I will fulfill the number of your days.
27. I will send my terror before you, and will confuse all the people to whom you come, and I will make all your enemies turn their backs to you.
28. I will send the hornet before you, which will drive out the Hivite, the Canaanite, and the Hittite, from before you.
29. I will not drive them out from before you in one year, lest the land become desolate, and the animals of the field multiply against you.
30. Little by little I will drive them out from before you, until you have increased and inherit the land.
31. I will set your border from the Red Sea even to the sea of the Philistines, and from the wilderness to the River; for I will deliver the inhabitants of the land into your hand, and you shall drive them out before you.
32. You shall make no covenant with them, nor with their gods.
33. They shall not dwell in your land, lest they make you sin against me, for if you serve their gods, it will surely be a snare to you."

Exodus 24
1. He said to Moshe, "Come up to YHWH, you, and Aharon, Nadab, and Abihu, and seventy of the elders of Israel; and worship from a distance.
2. Moshe alone shall come near to YHWH, but they shall not come near, neither shall the people go up with him."
3. Moshe came and told the people all the words of YHWH, and all the ordinances; and all the people answered with one voice, and said, "All the words which YHWH has spoken will we do."
4. Moshe wrote all the words of YHWH, and rose up early in the morning, and built an altar under the mountain, and twelve pillars for the twelve tribes of Israel.
5. He sent young people of the children of Israel, who offered burnt offerings and sacrificed peace offerings of oxen to YHWH.
6. Moshe took half of the blood and put it in basins, and half of the blood he sprinkled on the altar.
7. He took the book of the covenant and read it in the hearing of the people, and they said, "All that YHWH has spoken will we do, and be obedient."
8. Moshe took the blood, and sprinkled it on the people, and said, "Look, this is the blood of the covenant, which YHWH has made with you concerning all these words."
9. Then Moshe, Aharon, Nadab, Abihu, and seventy of the elders of Israel went up.
10. They saw the God of Israel. Under his feet was like a paved work of sapphire stone, like the skies for clearness.
11. He didn't lay his hand on the nobles of the children of Israel. They saw Elohim, and ate and drank.
12. YHWH said to Moshe, "Come up to me on the mountain, and stay here, and I will give you the tables of stone with the law and the commands that I have written, that you may teach them."
13. Moshe rose up with Yehoshua, his servant, and Moshe went up onto Elohim's Mountain.
14. He said to the elders, "Wait here for us, until we come again to you. Behold, Aharon and Hur are with you. Whoever is involved in a dispute can go to them."
15. Moshe went up on the mountain, and the cloud covered the mountain.
16. The glory of YHWH settled on Mount Sinai, and the cloud covered it six days. The seventh day he called to Moshe out of the midst of the cloud.
17. The appearance of the glory of YHWH was like devouring fire on the top of the mountain in the eyes of the children of Israel.
18. Moshe entered into the midst of the cloud, and went up on the mountain; and Moshe was on the mountain forty days and forty nights.

Exodus 25
1. YHWH spoke to Moshe, saying,
2. "Speak to the children of Israel, that they take an offering for me. From everyone whose heart makes him willing you shall take my offering.
3. This is the offering which you shall take from them: gold, silver, brass,
4. blue, purple, scarlet, fine linen, goats' hair,
5. rams' skins dyed red, sea cow hides, acacia wood,
6. oil for the light, spices for the anointing oil and for the sweet incense,
7. onyx stones, and stones to be set for the ephod and for the breastplate.
8. Let them make me a sanctuary, that I may dwell among them.
9. According to all that I show you, the pattern of the tent, and the pattern of all of its furniture, even so you shall make it.
10. "They shall make an ark of acacia wood. Its length shall be two and a half cubits, its breadth a cubit and a half, and a cubit and a half its height.
11. You shall overlay it with pure gold. Inside and outside shall you overlay it, and shall make a gold molding around it.
12. You shall cast four rings of gold for it, and put them in its four feet. Two rings shall be on the one side of it, and two rings on the other side of it.
13. You shall make poles of acacia wood, and overlay them with gold.
14. You shall put the poles into the rings on the sides of the ark to carry the ark.
15. The poles shall be in the rings of the ark. They shall not be taken from it.
16. You shall put the testimony which I shall give you into the ark.
17. You shall make a mercy seat of pure gold. Two and a half cubits shall be its length, and a cubit and a half its breadth.
18. You shall make two cherubim of hammered gold. You shall make them at the two ends of the mercy seat.
19. Make one cherub at the one end, and one cherub at the other end. You shall make the cherubim on its two ends of one piece with the mercy seat.
20. The cherubim shall spread out their wings upward, covering the mercy seat with their wings, with their faces toward one another. The faces of the cherubim shall be toward the mercy seat.
21. You shall put the mercy seat on top of the ark, and in the ark you shall put the testimony that I will give you.
22. There I will meet with you, and I will tell you from above the mercy seat, from between the two cherubim which are on the ark of the testimony, all that I command you for the children of Israel.
23. "You shall make a table of acacia wood. Two cubits shall be its length, and a cubit its breadth, and one and a half cubits its height.
24. You shall overlay it with pure gold, and make a gold molding around it.
25. You shall make a rim of a handbreadth around it. You shall make a golden molding on its rim around it.
26. You shall make four rings of gold for it, and put the rings in the four corners that are on its four feet.
27. the rings shall be close to the rim, for places for the poles to carry the table.
28. You shall make the poles of acacia wood, and overlay them with gold, that the table may be carried with them.
29. You shall make its dishes, its spoons, its ladles, and its bowls to pour out offerings with. Of pure gold shall you make them.
30. You shall set bread of the presence on the table before me always.
31. "You shall make a lampstand of pure gold. Of hammered work shall the lampstand be made, even its base, its shaft, its cups, its buds, and its flowers, shall be of one piece with it.
32. There shall be six branches going out of its sides: three branches of the lampstand out of its one side, and three branches of the lampstand out of its other side;
33. three cups made like almond blossoms in one branch, a bud and a flower; and three cups made like almond blossoms in the other branch, a bud and a flower, so for the six branches going out of the lampstand;
34. and in the lampstand four cups made like almond blossoms, its buds and its flowers;
35. and a bud under two branches of one piece with it, and a bud under two branches of one piece with it, and a bud under two branches of one piece with it, for the six branches going out of the lampstand.
36. Their buds and their branches shall be of one piece with it, the whole of it one beaten work of pure gold.
37. You shall make its lamps seven, and they shall light its lamps to give light to the space in front of it.
38. Its snuffers and its snuff dishes shall be of pure gold.
39. It shall be made of a talent of pure gold, with all these accessories.
40. See that you make them after their pattern, which has been shown to you on the mountain.

Exodus 26
1. "Moreover you shall make the tent with ten curtains; of fine twined linen, and blue, and purple, and scarlet, with cherubim. The work of the skillful workman you shall make them.
2. The length of each curtain shall be twenty-eight cubits, and the breadth of each curtain four cubits: all the curtains shall have one measure.
3. Five curtains shall be coupled together one to another; and the other five curtains shall be coupled one to another.
4. You shall make loops of blue on the edge of the one curtain from the edge in the coupling; and likewise shall you make in the edge of the curtain that is outmost in the second coupling.
5. You shall make fifty loops in the one curtain, and you shall make fifty loops in the edge of the curtain that is in the second coupling. The loops shall be opposite one to another.
6. You shall make fifty clasps of gold, and couple the curtains one to another with the clasps: and the tent shall be a unit.
7. "You shall make curtains of goats' hair for a covering over the tent: eleven curtains shall you make them.
8. The length of each curtain shall be thirty cubits, and the breadth of each curtain four cubits: the eleven curtains shall have one measure.
9. You shall couple five curtains by themselves, and six curtains by themselves, and shall double over the sixth curtain in the forefront of the tent.
10. You shall make fifty loops on the edge of the one curtain that is outmost in the coupling, and fifty loops on the edge of the curtain which is outmost in the second coupling.
11. You shall make fifty clasps of brass, and put the clasps into the loops, and couple the tent together, that it may be one.
12. The overhanging part that remains of the curtains of the tent, the half curtain that remains, shall hang over the back of the tent.
13. The cubit on the one side, and the cubit on the other side, of that which remains in the length of the curtains of the tent, shall hang over the sides of the tent on this side and on that side, to cover it.
14. You shall make a covering for the tent of rams' skins dyed red, and a covering of sea cow hides above.
15. "You shall make the boards for the tent of acacia wood, standing up.
16. Ten cubits shall be the length of a board, and one and a half cubits the breadth of each board.
17. There shall be two tenons in each board, joined to one another: thus shall you make for all the boards of the tent.
18. You shall make the boards for the tent, twenty boards for the south side southward.
19. You shall make forty sockets of silver under the twenty boards; two sockets under one board for its two tenons, and two sockets under another board for its two tenons.
20. For the second side of the tent, on the north side, twenty boards,
21. and their forty sockets of silver; two sockets under one board, and two sockets under another board.
22. For the far part of the tent westward you shall make six boards.
23. Two boards shall you make for the corners of the tent in the far part.
24. They shall be double beneath, and in like manner they shall be entire to the top of it to one ring: thus shall it be for them both; they shall be for the two corners.
25. There shall be eight boards, and their sockets of silver, sixteen sockets; two sockets under one board, and two sockets under another board.
26. "You shall make bars of acacia wood: five for the boards of the one side of the tent,
27. and five bars for the boards of the other side of the tent, and five bars for the boards of the side of the tent, for the far part westward.
28. The middle bar in the midst of the boards shall pass through from end to end.
29. You shall overlay the boards with gold, and make their rings of gold for places for the bars: and you shall overlay the bars with gold.
30. You shall set up the tent according to the way that it was shown to you on the mountain.
31. "You shall make a veil of blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine twined linen, with cherubim. The work of the skillful workman shall it be made.
32. You shall hang it on four pillars of acacia overlaid with gold; their hooks shall be of gold, on four sockets of silver.
33. You shall hang up the veil under the clasps, and shall bring the ark of the testimony in there within the veil: and the veil shall separate the holy place from the most holy for you.
34. You shall put the mercy seat on the ark of the testimony in the most holy place.
35. You shall set the table outside the veil, and the lampstand over against the table on the side of the tent toward the south: and you shall put the table on the north side.
36. "You shall make a screen for the door of the Tent, of blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine twined linen, the work of the embroiderer.
37. You shall make for the screen five pillars of acacia, and overlay them with gold: their hooks shall be of gold: and you shall cast five sockets of brass for them.

Exodus 27
1. "You shall make the altar of acacia wood, five cubits long, and five cubits broad; the altar shall be foursquare: and its height shall be three cubits.
2. You shall make its horns on its four corners; its horns shall be of one piece with it; and you shall overlay it with brass.
3. You shall make its pots to take away its ashes, its shovels, its basins, its flesh hooks, and its fire pans: all its vessels you shall make of brass.
4. You shall make a grating for it of network of brass: and on the net you shall make four bronze rings in its four corners.
5. You shall put it under the ledge around the altar beneath, that the net may reach halfway up the altar.
6. You shall make poles for the altar, poles of acacia wood, and overlay them with brass.
7. Its poles shall be put into the rings, and the poles shall be on the two sides of the altar, when carrying it.
8. Hollow with planks shall you make it: as it has been shown you on the mountain, so shall they make it.
9. "You shall make the court of the tent: for the south side southward there shall be hangings for the court of fine twined linen one hundred cubits long for one side:
10. and the pillars of it shall be twenty, and their sockets twenty, of brass; the hooks of the pillars and their fillets shall be of silver.
11. Likewise for the north side in length there shall be hangings one hundred cubits long, and the pillars of it twenty, and their sockets twenty, of brass; the hooks of the pillars, and their fillets, of silver.
12. For the breadth of the court on the west side shall be hangings of fifty cubits; their pillars ten, and their sockets ten.
13. The breadth of the court on the east side eastward shall be fifty cubits.
14. The hangings for the one side of the gate shall be fifteen cubits; their pillars three, and their sockets three.
15. For the other side shall be hangings of fifteen cubits; their pillars three, and their sockets three.
16. For the gate of the court shall be a screen of twenty cubits, of blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine twined linen, the work of the embroiderer; their pillars four, and their sockets four.
17. All the pillars of the court round about shall be filleted with silver; their hooks of silver, and their sockets of brass.
18. The length of the court shall be one hundred cubits, and the breadth fifty every where, and the height five cubits, of fine twined linen, and their sockets of brass.
19. All the instruments of the tent in all its service, and all the pins of it, and all the pins of the court, shall be of brass.
20. "You shall command the children of Israel, that they bring to you pure olive oil beaten for the light, to cause a lamp to burn continually.
21. In the tent of meeting, outside the veil which is before the testimony, Aharon and his sons shall keep it in order from evening to morning before YHWH: it shall be a statute forever throughout their generations on the behalf of the children of Israel.

Exodus 28
1. "Bring Aharon your brother, and his sons with him, near to you from among the children of Israel, that he may minister to me in the priest's office, even Aharon, Nadab and Abihu, Eleazar and Ithamar, Aharon's sons.
2. You shall make holy garments for Aharon your brother, for glory and for beauty.
3. You shall speak to all who are wise-hearted, whom I have filled with the spirit of wisdom, that they make Aharon's garments to sanctify him, that he may minister to me in the priest's office.
4. These are the garments which they shall make: a breastplate, and an ephod, and a robe, and a coat of checker work, a turban, and a sash: and they shall make holy garments for Aharon your brother, and his sons, that he may minister to me in the priest's office.
5. They shall take the gold, and the blue, and the purple, and the scarlet, and the fine linen.
6. "They shall make the ephod of gold, of blue, and purple, scarlet, and fine twined linen, the work of the skillful workman.
7. It shall have two shoulder straps joined to the two ends of it, that it may be joined together.
8. The skillfully woven band, which is on it, that is on him, shall be like its work and of the same piece; of gold, of blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine twined linen.
9. You shall take two onyx stones, and engrave on them the names of the children of Israel:
10. six of their names on the one stone, and the names of the six that remain on the other stone, in the order of their birth.
11. With the work of an engraver in stone, like the engravings of a signet, shall you engrave the two stones, according to the names of the children of Israel: you shall make them to be enclosed in settings of gold.
12. You shall put the two stones on the shoulder straps of the ephod, to be stones of memorial for the children of Israel: and Aharon shall bear their names before YHWH on his two shoulders for a memorial.
13. You shall make settings of gold,
14. and two chains of pure gold; you shall make them like cords of braided work: and you shall put the braided chains on the settings.
15. "You shall make a breastplate of judgment, the work of the skillful workman; like the work of the ephod you shall make it; of gold, of blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine twined linen, shall you make it.
16. It shall be square and folded double; a span shall be its length of it, and a span its breadth.
17. You shall set in it settings of stones, four rows of stones: a row of ruby, topaz, and beryl shall be the first row;
18. and the second row a turquoise, a sapphire, and an emerald;
19. and the third row a jacinth, an agate, and an amethyst;
20. and the fourth row a chrysolite, an onyx, and a jasper: they shall be enclosed in gold in their settings.
21. The stones shall be according to the names of the children of Israel, twelve, according to their names; like the engravings of a signet, everyone according to their name, they shall be for the twelve tribes.
22. You shall make on the breastplate chains like cords, of braided work of pure gold.
23. You shall make on the breastplate two rings of gold, and shall put the two rings on the two ends of the breastplate.
24. You shall put the two braided chains of gold in the two rings at the ends of the breastplate.
25. The other two ends of the two braided chains you shall put on the two settings, and put them on the shoulder straps of the ephod in the forepart of it.
26. You shall make two rings of gold, and you shall put them on the two ends of the breastplate, on its edge, which is toward the side of the ephod inward.
27. You shall make two rings of gold, and shall put them on the two shoulder straps of the ephod underneath, in the forepart of it, close by the coupling of it, above the skillfully woven band of the ephod.
28. They shall bind the breastplate by the rings of it to the rings of the ephod with a lace of blue, that it may be on the skillfully woven band of the ephod, and that the breastplate may not swing out from the ephod.
29. Aharon shall bear the names of the children of Israel in the breastplate of judgment on his heart, when he goes in to the holy place, for a memorial before YHWH continually.
30. You shall put in the breastplate of judgment the Urim and the Thummim; and they shall be on Aharon's heart, when he goes in before YHWH: and Aharon shall bear the judgment of the children of Israel on his heart before YHWH continually.
31. "You shall make the robe of the ephod all of blue.
32. It shall have a hole for the head in the midst of it: it shall have a binding of woven work round about the hole of it, as it were the hole of a coat of mail, that it not be torn.
33. On its hem you shall make pomegranates of blue, and of purple, and of scarlet, around its hem; and bells of gold between them round about:
34. a golden bell and a pomegranate, a golden bell and a pomegranate, on the hem of the robe round about.
35. It shall be on Aharon to minister: and the sound of it shall be heard when he goes in to the holy place before YHWH, and when he comes out, that he not die.
36. "You shall make a plate of pure gold, and engrave on it, like the engravings of a signet, 'HOLY TO YAHWEH.'
37. You shall put it on a lace of blue, and it shall be on the sash; on the front of the sash it shall be.
38. It shall be on Aharon's forehead, and Aharon shall bear the iniquity of the holy things, which the children of Israel shall make holy in all their holy gifts; and it shall be always on his forehead, that they may be accepted before YHWH.
39. You shall weave the coat in checker work of fine linen, and you shall make a turban of fine linen, and you shall make a sash, the work of the embroiderer.
40. "You shall make coats for Aharon's sons, and you shall make sashes for them and headbands shall you make for them, for glory and for beauty.
41. You shall put them on Aharon your brother, and on his sons with him, and shall anoint them, and consecrate them, and sanctify them, that they may minister to me in the priest's office.
42. You shall make them linen breeches to cover the flesh of their nakedness; from the waist even to the thighs they shall reach:
43. They shall be on Aharon, and on his sons, when they go in to the tent of meeting, or when they come near to the altar to minister in the holy place; that they don't bear iniquity, and die: it shall be a statute forever to him and to his descendants after him.

Exodus 29
1. "This is the thing that you shall do to them to make them holy, to minister to me in the priest's office: take one young bull and two rams without blemish,
2. unleavened bread, unleavened cakes mixed with oil, and unleavened wafers anointed with oil: you shall make them of fine wheat flour.
3. You shall put them into one basket, and bring them in the basket, with the bull and the two rams.
4. You shall bring Aharon and his sons to the door of the tent of meeting, and shall wash them with water.
5. You shall take the garments, and put on Aharon the coat, the robe of the ephod, the ephod, and the breastplate, and dress him with the skillfully woven band of the ephod;
6. and you shall set the turban on his head, and put the holy crown on the turban.
7. Then you shall take the anointing oil, and pour it on his head, and anoint him.
8. You shall bring his sons, and put coats on them.
9. You shall dress them with belts, Aharon and his sons, and bind headbands on them: and they shall have the priesthood by a perpetual statute: and you shall consecrate Aharon and his sons.
10. "You shall bring the bull before the tent of meeting: and Aharon and his sons shall lay their hands on the head of the bull.
11. You shall kill the bull before YHWH, at the door of the tent of meeting.
12. You shall take of the blood of the bull, and put it on the horns of the altar with your finger; and you shall pour out all the blood at the base of the altar.
13. You shall take all the fat that covers the innards, the cover of the liver, the two kidneys, and the fat that is on them, and burn them on the altar.
14. But the flesh of the bull, and its skin, and its dung, you shall burn with fire outside of the camp: it is a sin offering.
15. "You shall also take the one ram; and Aharon and his sons shall lay their hands on the head of the ram.
16. You shall kill the ram, and you shall take its blood, and sprinkle it around on the altar.
17. You shall cut the ram into its pieces, and wash its innards, and its legs, and put them with its pieces, and with its head.
18. You shall burn the whole ram on the altar: it is a burnt offering to YHWH; it is a sweet savor, an offering made by fire to YHWH.
19. "You shall take the other ram; and Aharon and his sons shall lay their hands on the head of the ram.
20. Then you shall kill the ram, and take some of its blood, and put it on the tip of the right ear of Aharon, and on the tip of the right ear of his sons, and on the thumb of their right hand, and on the big toe of their right foot, and sprinkle the blood on the altar round about.
21. You shall take of the blood that is on the altar, and of the anointing oil, and sprinkle it on Aharon, and on his garments, and on his sons, and on the garments of his sons with him: and he shall be made holy, and his garments, and his sons, and his sons' garments with him.
22. Also you shall take some of the ram's fat, the fat tail, the fat that covers the innards, the cover of the liver, the two kidneys, the fat that is on them, and the right thigh (for it is a ram of consecration),
23. and one loaf of bread, one cake of oiled bread, and one wafer out of the basket of unleavened bread that is before YHWH.
24. You shall put all of this in Aharon's hands, and in his sons' hands, and shall wave them for a wave offering before YHWH.
25. You shall take them from their hands, and burn them on the altar on the burnt offering, for a sweet savor before YHWH: it is an offering made by fire to YHWH.
26. "You shall take the breast of Aharon's ram of consecration, and wave it for a wave offering before YHWH: and it shall be your portion.
27. You shall sanctify the breast of the wave offering, and the thigh of the wave offering, which is waved, and which is heaved up, of the ram of consecration, even of that which is for Aharon, and of that which is for his sons:
28. and it shall be for Aharon and his sons as their portion forever from the children of Israel; for it is a wave offering: and it shall be a wave offering from the children of Israel of the sacrifices of their peace offerings, even their wave offering to YHWH.
29. "The holy garments of Aharon shall be for his sons after him, to be anointed in them, and to be consecrated in them.
30. Seven days shall the son who is priest in his place put them on, when he comes into the tent of meeting to minister in the holy place.
31. "You shall take the ram of consecration, and boil its flesh in a holy place.
32. Aharon and his sons shall eat the flesh of the ram, and the bread that is in the basket, at the door of the tent of meeting.
33. They shall eat those things with which atonement was made, to consecrate and sanctify them: but a stranger shall not eat of it, because they are holy.
34. If anything of the flesh of the consecration, or of the bread, remains to the morning, then you shall burn the remainder with fire: it shall not be eaten, because it is holy.
35. "Thus shall you do to Aharon, and to his sons, according to all that I have commanded you. Seven days shall you consecrate them.
36. Every day shall you offer the bull of sin offering for atonement: and you shall cleanse the altar, when you make atonement for it; and you shall anoint it, to sanctify it.
37. Seven days you shall make atonement for the altar, and sanctify it: and the altar shall be most holy; whatever touches the altar shall be holy.
38. "Now this is that which you shall offer on the altar: two lambs a year old day by day continually.
39. The one lamb you shall offer in the morning; and the other lamb you shall offer at evening:
40. and with the one lamb a tenth part of an ephah of fine flour mixed with the fourth part of a hin of beaten oil, and the fourth part of a hin of wine for a drink offering.
41. The other lamb you shall offer at evening, and shall do to it according to the meal offering of the morning, and according to its drink offering, for a sweet savor, an offering made by fire to YHWH.
42. It shall be a continual burnt offering throughout your generations at the door of the tent of meeting before YHWH, where I will meet with you, to speak there to you.
43. There I will meet with the children of Israel; and the place shall be sanctified by my glory.
44. I will sanctify the tent of meeting and the altar: Aharon also and his sons I will sanctify, to minister to me in the priest's office.
45. I will dwell among the children of Israel, and will be their God.
46. They shall know that I am YHWH their God, who brought them forth out of the land of Mitzrayim, that I might dwell among them: I am YHWH their God.

Exodus 30
1. "You shall make an altar to burn incense on. You shall make it of acacia wood.
2. Its length shall be a cubit, and its breadth a cubit. It shall be square, and its height shall be two cubits. Its horns shall be of one piece with it.
3. You shall overlay it with pure gold, the top of it, the sides of it around it, and its horns; and you shall make a gold molding around it.
4. You shall make two golden rings for it under its molding; on its two ribs, on its two sides you shall make them; and they shall be for places for poles with which to bear it.
5. You shall make the poles of acacia wood, and overlay them with gold.
6. You shall put it before the veil that is by the ark of the testimony, before the mercy seat that is over the testimony, where I will meet with you.
7. Aharon shall burn incense of sweet spices on it every morning. When he tends the lamps, he shall burn it.
8. When Aharon lights the lamps at evening, he shall burn it, a perpetual incense before YHWH throughout your generations.
9. You shall offer no strange incense on it, nor burnt offering, nor meal offering; and you shall pour no drink offering on it.
10. Aharon shall make atonement on its horns once in the year; with the blood of the sin offering of atonement once in the year he shall make atonement for it throughout your generations. It is most holy to YHWH."
11. YHWH spoke to Moshe, saying,
12. "When you take a census of the children of Israel, according to those who are numbered among them, then each person shall give a ransom for their soul to YHWH, when you number them; that there be no plague among them when you number them.
13. They shall give this, everyone who passes over to those who are numbered, half a shekel after the shekel of the sanctuary; (the shekel is twenty gerahs;) half a shekel for an offering to YHWH.
14. Everyone who passes over to those who are numbered, from twenty years old and upward, shall give the offering to YHWH.
15. The rich shall not give more, and the poor shall not give less, than the half shekel, when they give the offering of YHWH, to make atonement for your souls.
16. You shall take the atonement money from the children of Israel, and shall appoint it for the service of the tent of meeting; that it may be a memorial for the children of Israel before YHWH, to make atonement for your souls."
17. YHWH spoke to Moshe, saying,
18. "You shall also make a basin of brass, and the base of it of brass, in which to wash. You shall put it between the tent of meeting and the altar, and you shall put water in it.
19. Aharon and his sons shall wash their hands and their feet in it.
20. When they go into the tent of meeting, they shall wash with water, that they not die; or when they come near to the altar to minister, to burn an offering made by fire to YHWH.
21. So they shall wash their hands and their feet, that they not die: and it shall be a statute forever to them, even to him and to his descendants throughout their generations."
22. Moreover YHWH spoke to Moshe, saying,
23. "Also take fine spices: of liquid myrrh, five hundred shekels; and of fragrant cinnamon half as much, even two hundred and fifty; and of fragrant cane, two hundred and fifty;
24. and of cassia five hundred, after the shekel of the sanctuary; and a hin of olive oil.
25. You shall make it a holy anointing oil, a perfume compounded after the art of the perfumer: it shall be a holy anointing oil.
26. You shall use it to anoint the tent of meeting, the ark of the testimony,
27. the table and all its articles, the lampstand and its accessories, the altar of incense,
28. the altar of burnt offering with all its utensils, and the basin with its base.
29. You shall sanctify them, that they may be most holy. Whatever touches them shall be holy.
30. You shall anoint Aharon and his sons, and sanctify them, that they may minister to me in the priest's office.
31. You shall speak to the children of Israel, saying, 'This shall be a holy anointing oil to me throughout your generations.
32. It shall not be poured on a person's flesh, neither shall you make any like it, according to its composition: it is holy. It shall be holy to you.
33. Whoever compounds any like it, or whoever puts any of it on a stranger, they shall be cut off from their people.'"
34. YHWH said to Moshe, "Take to yourself sweet spices, gum resin, and onycha, and galbanum; sweet spices with pure frankincense: of each shall there be an equal weight;
35. and you shall make incense of it, a perfume after the art of the perfumer, seasoned with salt, pure and holy:
36. and you shall beat some of it very small, and put some of it before the testimony in the tent of meeting, where I will meet with you. It shall be to you most holy.
37. The incense which you shall make, according to its composition you shall not make for yourselves: it shall be to you holy for YHWH.
38. Whoever shall make any like that, to smell of it, they shall be cut off from their people."

Exodus 31
1. YHWH spoke to Moshe, saying,
2. "Behold, I have called by name Bezalel the son of Uri, the son of Hur, of the tribe of Yehudah:
3. and I have filled him with the Ruach of Elohim, in wisdom, and in understanding, and in knowledge, and in all manner of workmanship,
4. to devise skillful works, to work in gold, and in silver, and in brass,
5. and in cutting of stones for setting, and in carving of wood, to work in all manner of workmanship.
6. I, behold, I have appointed with him Oholiab, the son of Ahisamach, of the tribe of Dan; and in the heart of all who are wise-hearted I have put wisdom, that they may make all that I have commanded you:
7. the tent of meeting, the ark of the testimony, the mercy seat that is on it, all the furniture of the Tent,
8. the table and its vessels, the pure lampstand with all its vessels, the altar of incense,
9. the altar of burnt offering with all its vessels, the basin and its base,
10. the finely worked garments--the holy garments for Aharon the priest-- the garments of his sons to minister in the priest's office,
11. the anointing oil, and the incense of sweet spices for the holy place: according to all that I have commanded you they shall do."
12. YHWH spoke to Moshe, saying,
13. "Speak also to the children of Israel, saying, 'Most certainly you shall keep my Sabbaths: for it is a sign between me and you throughout your generations; that you may know that I am YHWH who sanctifies you.
14. You shall keep the Sabbath therefore; for it is holy to you. Everyone who profanes it shall surely be put to death; for whoever does any work therein, that soul shall be cut off from among their people.
15. Six days shall work be done, but on the seventh day is a Sabbath of solemn rest, holy to YHWH. Whoever does any work on the Sabbath day shall surely be put to death.
16. Therefore the children of Israel shall keep the Sabbath, to observe the Sabbath throughout their generations, for a perpetual covenant.
17. It is a sign between me and the children of Israel forever; for in six days YHWH made heavens and earth, and on the seventh day he rested, and was refreshed.'"
18. He gave to Moshe, when he finished speaking with him on Mount Sinai, the two tablets of the testimony, stone tablets, written with Elohim's finger.

Exodus 32
1. When the people saw that Moshe delayed to come down from the mountain, the people gathered themselves together to Aharon, and said to him, "Come, make us gods, which shall go before us; for as for this Moshe, the one who brought us up out of the land of Mitzrayim, we don't know what has become of him."
2. Aharon said to them, "Take off the golden rings, which are in the ears of your wives, of your sons, and of your daughters, and bring them to me."
3. All the people took off the golden rings which were in their ears, and brought them to Aharon.
4. He received what they handed him, and fashioned it with an engraving tool, and made it a molten calf; and they said, "These are your gods, Israel, which brought you up out of the land of Mitzrayim."
5. When Aharon saw this, he built an altar before it; and Aharon made a proclamation, and said, "Tomorrow shall be a feast to YHWH."
6. They rose up early on the next day, and offered burnt offerings, and brought peace offerings; and the people sat down to eat and to drink, and rose up to play.
7. YHWH spoke to Moshe, "Go, get down; for your people, who you brought up out of the land of Mitzrayim, have corrupted themselves!
8. They have turned aside quickly out of the way which I commanded them. They have made themselves a molten calf, and have worshiped it, and have sacrificed to it, and said, 'These are your gods, Israel, which brought you up out of the land of Mitzrayim.'"
9. YHWH said to Moshe, "I have seen these people, and behold, they are a stiff-necked people.
10. Now therefore leave me alone, that my wrath may burn hot against them, and that I may consume them; and I will make of you a great nation."
11. Moshe begged YHWH his God, and said, "YHWH, why does your wrath burn hot against your people, that you have brought forth out of the land of Mitzrayim with great power and with a mighty hand?
12. Why should the Egyptians speak, saying, 'He brought them forth for brokenness, to kill them in the mountains, and to consume them from the surface of the earth?' Turn from your fierce wrath, and relent from this brokenness against your people.
13. Remember Avraham, Yitzhak, and Israel, your servants, to whom you swore by your own self, and said to them, 'I will multiply your seed as the stars of the heavens, and all this land that I have spoken of I will give to your seed, and they shall inherit it forever.'"
14. YHWH relented from the harm which he said he would do to his people.
15. Moshe turned, and went down from the mountain, with the two tablets of the testimony in his hand; tablets that were written on both their sides; on the one side and on the other they were written.
16. The tablets were the work of Elohim, and the writing was the writing of Elohim, engraved on the tables.
17. When Yehoshua heard the noise of the people as they shouted, he said to Moshe, "There is the noise of war in the camp."
18. He said, "It isn't the voice of those who shout for victory, neither is it the voice of those who cry for being overcome; but the noise of those who sing that I hear."
19. It happened, as soon as he came near to the camp, that he saw the calf and the dancing: and Moshe' anger grew hot, and he threw the tablets out of his hands, and broke them beneath the mountain.
20. He took the calf which they had made, and burnt it with fire, ground it to powder, and scattered it on the water, and made the children of Israel drink of it.
21. Moshe said to Aharon, "What did these people do to you, that you have brought a great sin on them?"
22. Aharon said, "Don't let the anger of my lord grow hot. You know the people, that they are set on brokenness.
23. For they said to me, 'Make us gods, which shall go before us; for as for this Moshe, the one who brought us up out of the land of Mitzrayim, we don't know what has become of him.'
24. I said to them, 'Whoever has any gold, let them take it off:' so they gave it to me; and I threw it into the fire, and out came this calf."
25. When Moshe saw that the people had broken loose, (for Aharon had let them loose for a derision among their enemies),
26. then Moshe stood in the gate of the camp, and said, "Whoever is on YHWH's side, come to me!" All the sons of Levi gathered themselves together to him.
27. They said to them, "Thus says YHWH, the God of Israel, 'Everyone put their sword on their thigh, and go back and forth from gate to gate throughout the camp, and everyone kill their brother, and everyone their companion, and everyone their neighbor.'"
28. The sons of Levi did according to the word of Moshe: and there fell of the people that day about three thousand men.
29. Moshe said, "Consecrate yourselves today to YHWH, yes, everyone against their son, and against their brother; that he may bestow on you a blessing this day."
30. It happened on the next day, that Moshe said to the people, "You have sinned a great sin. Now I will go up to YHWH. Perhaps I shall make atonement for your sin."
31. Moshe returned to YHWH, and said, "Oh, this people have sinned a great sin, and have made themselves gods of gold.
32. Yet now, if you will, forgive their sin--and if not, please blot me out of your book which you have written."
33. YHWH said to Moshe, "Whoever has sinned against me, him will I blot out of my book.
34. Now go, lead the people to the place of which I have spoken to you. Behold, my angel shall go before you. Nevertheless in the day when I punish, I will punish them for their sin."
35. YHWH struck the people, because they made the calf, which Aharon made.

Exodus 33
1. YHWH spoke to Moshe, "Depart, go up from here, you and the people that you have brought up out of the land of Mitzrayim, to the land of which I swore to Avraham, to Yitzhak, and to Ya'akov, saying, 'I will give it to your seed.'
2. I will send an angel before you; and I will drive out the Canaanite, the Amorite, and the Hittite, and the Perizzite, the Hivite, and the Jebusite:
3. to a land flowing with milk and honey: for I will not go up in the midst of you, for you are a stiff-necked people, lest I consume you in the way."
4. When the people heard this brokenness news, they mourned: and no one put on their jewelry.
5. YHWH said to Moshe, "Tell the children of Israel, 'You are a stiff-necked people. If I were to go up into your midst for one moment, I would consume you. Therefore now take off your jewelry from you, that I may know what to do to you.'"
6. The children of Israel stripped themselves of their jewelry from Mount Horeb onward.
7. Now Moshe used to take the tent and to pitch it outside the camp, far away from the camp, and he called it "The tent of meeting." It happened that everyone who sought YHWH went out to the tent of meeting, which was outside the camp.
8. It happened that when Moshe went out to the Tent, that all the people rose up, and stood, everyone at their tent door, and watched Moshe, until they had gone into the Tent.
9. It happened, when Moshe entered into the Tent, that the pillar of cloud descended, stood at the door of the Tent, and spoke with Moshe.
10. All the people saw the pillar of cloud stand at the door of the Tent, and all the people rose up and worshiped, everyone at their tent door.
11. YHWH spoke to Moshe face to face, as a person speaks to their friend. He turned again into the camp, but his servant Yehoshua, the son of Nun, a young person, didn't depart out of the Tent.
12. Moshe said to YHWH, "Behold, you tell me, 'Bring up this people:' and you haven't let me know whom you will send with me. Yet you have said, 'I know you by name, and you have also found favor in my sight.'
13. Now therefore, if I have found favor in your sight, please show me now your ways, that I may know you, so that I may find favor in your sight: and consider that this nation is your people."
14. He said, "My presence will go with you, and I will give you rest."
15. He said to him, "If your presence doesn't go with me, don't carry us up from here.
16. For how would people know that I have found favor in your sight, I and your people? Isn't it in that you go with us, so that we are separated, I and your people, from all the people who are on the surface of the earth?"
17. YHWH said to Moshe, "I will do this thing also that you have spoken; for you have found favor in my sight, and I know you by name."
18. He said, "Please show me your glory."
19. He said, "I will make all my goodness pass before you, and will proclaim the name of YHWH before you. I will be gracious to whom I will be gracious, and will show mercy on whom I will show mercy."
20. He said, "You cannot see my face, for man may not see me and live."
21. YHWH also said, "Behold, there is a place by me, and you shall stand on the rock.
22. It will happen, while my glory passes by, that I will put you in a cleft of the rock, and will cover you with my hand until I have passed by;
23. then I will take away my hand, and you will see my back; but my face shall not be seen."

Exodus 34
1. YHWH said to Moshe, "Chisel two stone tablets like the first: and I will write on the tablets the words that were on the first tablets, which you broke.
2. Be ready by the morning, and come up in the morning to Mount Sinai, and present yourself there to me on the top of the mountain.
3. No one shall come up with you; neither let anyone be seen throughout all the mountain; neither let the flocks nor herds feed before that mountain."
4. He chiseled two tablets of stone like the first; and Moshe rose up early in the morning, and went up to Mount Sinai, as YHWH had commanded him, and took in his hand two stone tablets.
5. YHWH descended in the cloud, and stood with him there, and proclaimed the name of YHWH.
6. YHWH passed by before him, and proclaimed, "YHWH! YHWH, a merciful and gracious Elohim, slow to anger, and abundant in loving kindness and truth,
7. keeping loving kindness for thousands, forgiving iniquity and disobedience and sin; and that will by no means clear the guilty, visiting the iniquity of the fathers on the children, and on the children's children, on the third and on the fourth generation."
8. Moshe hurried and bowed his head toward the earth, and worshiped.
9. He said, "If now I have found favor in your sight, YHWH, please let YHWH go in the midst of us; although this is a stiff-necked people; pardon our iniquity and our sin, and take us for your inheritance."
10. He said, "Behold, I make a covenant: before all your people I will do marvels, such as have not been worked in all the earth, nor in any nation; and all the people among which you are shall see the work of YHWH; for it is an awesome thing that I do with you.
11. Observe that which I command you this day. Behold, I drive out before you the Amorite, the Canaanite, the Hittite, the Perizzite, the Hivite, and the Jebusite.
12. Be careful, lest you make a covenant with the inhabitants of the land where you are going, lest it be for a snare in the midst of you:
13. but you shall break down their altars, and dash in pieces their pillars, and you shall cut down their Asherim;
14. for you shall worship no other god: for YHWH, whose name is Jealous, is a jealous Elohim.
15. Don't make a covenant with the inhabitants of the land, lest they play the prostitute after their gods, and sacrifice to their gods, and one call you and you eat of his sacrifice;
16. and you take of their daughters to your sons, and their daughters play the prostitute after their gods, and make your sons play the prostitute after their gods.
17. You shall make no cast idols for yourselves.
18. "You shall keep the feast of unleavened bread. Seven days you shall eat unleavened bread, as I commanded you, at the time appointed in the month Abib; for in the month Abib you came out from Mitzrayim.
19. All that opens the womb is mine; and all your livestock that is male, the firstborn of cow and sheep.
20. The firstborn of a donkey you shall redeem with a lamb: and if you will not redeem it, then you shall break its neck. All the firstborn of your sons you shall redeem. No one shall appear before me empty.
21. "Six days you shall work, but on the seventh day you shall rest: in plowing time and in harvest you shall rest.
22. You shall observe the feast of weeks with the first fruits of wheat harvest, and the feast of harvest at the year's end.
23. Three times in the year all your males shall appear before YHWH God, the God of Israel.
24. For I will drive out nations before you and enlarge your borders; neither shall anyone desire your land when you go up to appear before YHWH, your God, three times in the year.
25. "You shall not offer the blood of my sacrifice with leavened bread; neither shall the sacrifice of the feast of the Passover be left to the morning.
26. You shall bring the first of the first fruits of your ground to the house of YHWH your God. You shall not boil a young goat in its mother's milk."
27. YHWH said to Moshe, "Write you these words: for in accordance with these words I have made a covenant with you and with Israel."
28. He was there with YHWH forty days and forty nights; he neither ate bread, nor drank water. He wrote on the tablets the words of the covenant, the ten commandments.
29. It happened, when Moshe came down from Mount Sinai with the two tablets of the testimony in Moshe' hand, when he came down from the mountain, that Moshe didn't know that the skin of his face shone by reason of his speaking with him.
30. When Aharon and all the children of Israel saw Moshe, behold, the skin of his face shone; and they were afraid to come near him.
31. Moshe called to them, and Aharon and all the rulers of the congregation returned to him; and Moshe spoke to them.
32. Afterward all the children of Israel came near, and he gave them all of the commandments that YHWH had spoken with him on Mount Sinai.
33. When Moshe was done speaking with them, he put a veil on his face.
34. But when Moshe went in before YHWH to speak with him, he took the veil off, until he came out; and he came out, and spoke to the children of Israel that which he was commanded.
35. The children of Israel saw Moshe' face, that the skin of Moshe' face shone: and Moshe put the veil on his face again, until he went in to speak with him.

Exodus 35
1. Moshe assembled all the congregation of the children of Israel, and said to them, "These are the words which YHWH has commanded, that you should do them.
2. 'Six days shall work be done, but on the seventh day there shall be a holy day for you, a Sabbath of solemn rest to YHWH: whoever does any work in it shall be put to death.
3. You shall kindle no fire throughout your habitations on the Sabbath day.'"
4. Moshe spoke to all the congregation of the children of Israel, saying, "This is the thing which YHWH commanded, saying,
5. 'Take from among you an offering to YHWH. Whoever is of a willing heart, let him bring it, YHWH's offering: gold, silver, brass,
6. blue, purple, scarlet, fine linen, goats' hair,
7. rams' skins dyed red, sea cow hides, acacia wood,
8. oil for the light, spices for the anointing oil and for the sweet incense,
9. onyx stones, and stones to be set for the ephod and for the breastplate.
10. "'Let every wise-hearted man among you come, and make all that YHWH has commanded:
11. the tent, its outer covering, its roof, its clasps, its boards, its bars, its pillars, and its sockets;
12. the ark, and its poles, the mercy seat, the veil of the screen;
13. the table with its poles and all its vessels, and the show bread;
14. the lampstand also for the light, with its vessels, its lamps, and the oil for the light;
15. and the altar of incense with its poles, the anointing oil, the sweet incense, the screen for the door, at the door of the tent;
16. the altar of burnt offering, with its grating of brass, it poles, and all its vessels, the basin and its base;
17. the hangings of the court, its pillars, their sockets, and the screen for the gate of the court;
18. the pins of the tent, the pins of the court, and their cords;
19. the finely worked garments, for ministering in the holy place, the holy garments for Aharon the priest, and the garments of his sons, to minister in the priest's office.'"
20. All the congregation of the children of Israel departed from the presence of Moshe.
21. They came, everyone whose heart stirred him up, and everyone whom their spirit made willing, and brought YHWH's offering, for the work of the tent of meeting, and for all of its service, and for the holy garments.
22. They came, both men and women, as many as were willing-hearted, and brought brooches, earrings, signet rings, and armlets, all jewels of gold; even everyone who offered an offering of gold to YHWH.
23. Everyone, with whom was found blue, purple, scarlet, fine linen, goats' hair, rams' skins dyed red, and sea cow hides, brought them.
24. Everyone who did offer an offering of silver and brass brought YHWH's offering; and everyone, with whom was found acacia wood for any work of the service, brought it.
25. All the women who were wise-hearted spun with their hands, and brought that which they had spun, the blue, the purple, the scarlet, and the fine linen.
26. All the women whose heart stirred them up in wisdom spun the goats' hair.
27. The rulers brought the onyx stones, and the stones to be set, for the ephod and for the breastplate;
28. and the spice, and the oil for the light, for the anointing oil, and for the sweet incense.
29. The children of Israel brought a freewill offering to YHWH; everyone and woman, whose heart made them willing to bring for all the work, which YHWH had commanded to be made by Moshe.
30. Moshe said to the children of Israel, "Behold, YHWH has called by name Bezalel the son of Uri, the son of Hur, of the tribe of Yehudah.
31. He has filled him with the Ruach of Elohim, in wisdom, in understanding, in knowledge, and in all manner of workmanship;
32. and to make skillful works, to work in gold, in silver, in brass,
33. in cutting of stones for setting, and in carving of wood, to work in all kinds of skillful workmanship.
34. He has put in his heart that he may teach, both he, and Oholiab, the son of Ahisamach, of the tribe of Dan.
35. He has filled them with wisdom of heart, to work all manner of workmanship, of the engraver, of the skillful workman, and of the embroiderer, in blue, in purple, in scarlet, and in fine linen, and of the weaver, even of those who do any workmanship, and of those who make skillful works.

Exodus 36
1. "Bezalel and Oholiab shall work with every wise-hearted man, in whom YHWH has put wisdom and understanding to know how to work all the work for the service of the sanctuary, according to all that YHWH has commanded."
2. Moshe called Bezalel and Oholiab, and every wise-hearted man, in whose heart YHWH had put wisdom, even everyone whose heart stirred him up to come to the work to do it:
3. and they received from Moshe all the offering which the children of Israel had brought for the work of the service of the sanctuary, with which to make it. They brought yet to him freewill offerings every morning.
4. All the wise people, who performed all the work of the sanctuary, each came from his work which they did.
5. They spoke to Moshe, saying, "The people bring much more than enough for the service of the work which YHWH commanded to make."
6. Moshe gave commandment, and they caused it to be proclaimed throughout the camp, saying, "Let neither man nor woman make anything else for the offering for the sanctuary." So the people were restrained from bringing.
7. For the stuff they had was sufficient for all the work to make it, and too much.
8. All the wise-hearted men among those who did the work made the tent with ten curtains; of fine twined linen, blue, purple, and scarlet, with cherubim, the work of the skillful workman, they made them.
9. The length of each curtain was twenty-eight cubits, and the breadth of each curtain four cubits. All the curtains had one measure.
10. He coupled five curtains to one another, and the other five curtains he coupled one to another.
11. He made loops of blue on the edge of the one curtain from the edge in the coupling. Likewise he made in the edge of the curtain that was outmost in the second coupling.
12. He made fifty loops in the one curtain, and he made fifty loops in the edge of the curtain that was in the second coupling. The loops were opposite one to another.
13. He made fifty clasps of gold, and coupled the curtains one to another with the clasps: so the tent was a unit.
14. He made curtains of goats' hair for a covering over the tent. He made them eleven curtains.
15. The length of each curtain was thirty cubits, and four cubits the breadth of each curtain. The eleven curtains had one measure.
16. He coupled five curtains by themselves, and six curtains by themselves.
17. He made fifty loops on the edge of the curtain that was outmost in the coupling, and he made fifty loops on the edge of the curtain which was outmost in the second coupling.
18. He made fifty clasps of brass to couple the tent together, that it might be a unit.
19. He made a covering for the tent of rams' skins dyed red, and a covering of sea cow hides above.
20. He made the boards for the tent of acacia wood, standing up.
21. Ten cubits was the length of a board, and a cubit and a half the breadth of each board.
22. Each board had two tenons, joined one to another. He made all the boards of the tent this way.
23. He made the boards for the tent: twenty boards for the south side southward.
24. He made forty sockets of silver under the twenty boards; two sockets under one board for its two tenons, and two sockets under another board for its two tenons.
25. For the second side of the tent, on the north side, he made twenty boards,
26. and their forty sockets of silver; two sockets under one board, and two sockets under another board.
27. For the far part of the tent westward he made six boards.
28. He made two boards for the corners of the tent in the far part.
29. They were double beneath, and in like manner they were all the way to the top of it to one ring. He did thus to both of them in the two corners.
30. There were eight boards, and their sockets of silver, sixteen sockets; under every board two sockets.
31. He made bars of acacia wood; five for the boards of the one side of the tent,
32. and five bars for the boards of the other side of the tent, and five bars for the boards of the tent for the hinder part westward.
33. He made the middle bar to pass through in the midst of the boards from the one end to the other.
34. He overlaid the boards with gold, and made their rings of gold for places for the bars, and overlaid the bars with gold.
35. He made the veil of blue, purple, scarlet, and fine twined linen: with cherubim. He made it the work of a skillful workman.
36. He made four pillars of acacia for it, and overlaid them with gold. Their hooks were of gold. He cast four sockets of silver for them.
37. He made a screen for the door of the tent, of blue, purple, scarlet, and fine twined linen, the work of an embroiderer;
38. and the five pillars of it with their hooks. He overlaid their capitals and their fillets with gold, and their five sockets were of brass.

Exodus 37
1. Bezalel made the ark of acacia wood. Its length was two and a half cubits, and its breadth a cubit and a half, and a cubit and a half its height.
2. He overlaid it with pure gold inside and outside, and made a molding of gold for it round about.
3. He cast four rings of gold for it, in its four feet; even two rings on its one side, and two rings on its other side.
4. He made poles of acacia wood, and overlaid them with gold.
5. He put the poles into the rings on the sides of the ark, to bear the ark.
6. He made a mercy seat of pure gold. Its length was two and a half cubits, and a cubit and a half its breadth.
7. He made two cherubim of gold. He made them of beaten work, at the two ends of the mercy seat;
8. one cherub at the one end, and one cherub at the other end. He made the cherubim of one piece with the mercy seat at its two ends.
9. The cherubim spread out their wings on high, covering the mercy seat with their wings, with their faces toward one another. The faces of the cherubim were toward the mercy seat.
10. He made the table of acacia wood. Its length was two cubits, and its breadth was a cubit, and its height was a cubit and a half.
11. He overlaid it with pure gold, and made a gold molding around it.
12. He made a border of a handbreadth around it, and made a golden molding on its border around it.
13. He cast four rings of gold for it, and put the rings in the four corners that were on its four feet.
14. The rings were close by the border, the places for the poles to carry the table.
15. He made the poles of acacia wood, and overlaid them with gold, to carry the table.
16. He made the vessels which were on the table, its dishes, its spoons, its bowls, and its pitchers with which to pour out, of pure gold.
17. He made the lampstand of pure gold. He made the lampstand of beaten work. Its base, its shaft, its cups, its buds, and its flowers were of one piece with it.
18. There were six branches going out of its sides: three branches of the lampstand out of its one side, and three branches of the lampstand out of its other side:
19. three cups made like almond blossoms in one branch, a bud and a flower, and three cups made like almond blossoms in the other branch, a bud and a flower: so for the six branches going out of the lampstand.
20. In the lampstand were four cups made like almond blossoms, its buds and its flowers;
21. and a bud under two branches of one piece with it, and a bud under two branches of one piece with it, and a bud under two branches of one piece with it, for the six branches going out of it.
22. Their buds and their branches were of one piece with it. The whole thing was one beaten work of pure gold.
23. He made its seven lamps, and its snuffers, and its snuff dishes, of pure gold.
24. He made it of a talent of pure gold, with all its vessels.
25. He made the altar of incense of acacia wood. It was square: its length was a cubit, and its breadth a cubit. Its height was two cubits. Its horns were of one piece with it.
26. He overlaid it with pure gold, its top, its sides around it, and its horns. He made a gold molding around it.
27. He made two golden rings for it under its molding crown, on its two ribs, on its two sides, for places for poles with which to carry it.
28. He made the poles of acacia wood, and overlaid them with gold.
29. He made the holy anointing oil and the pure incense of sweet spices, after the art of the perfumer.

Exodus 38
1. He made the altar of burnt offering of acacia wood. It was square. Its length was five cubits, its breadth was five cubits, and its height was three cubits.
2. He made its horns on its four corners. Its horns were of one piece with it, and he overlaid it with brass.
3. He made all the vessels of the altar, the pots, the shovels, the basins, the forks, and the fire pans. He made all its vessels of brass.
4. He made for the altar a grating of a network of brass, under the ledge around it beneath, reaching halfway up.
5. He cast four rings for the four ends of brass grating, to be places for the poles.
6. He made the poles of acacia wood, and overlaid them with brass.
7. He put the poles into the rings on the sides of the altar, with which to carry it. He made it hollow with planks.
8. He made the basin of brass, and its base of brass, out of the mirrors of the ministering women who ministered at the door of the tent of meeting.
9. He made the court: for the south side southward the hangings of the court were of fine twined linen, one hundred cubits;
10. their pillars were twenty, and their sockets twenty, of brass; the hooks of the pillars and their fillets were of silver.
11. For the north side one hundred cubits, their pillars twenty, and their sockets twenty, of brass; the hooks of the pillars, and their fillets, of silver.
12. For the west side were hangings of fifty cubits, their pillars ten, and their sockets ten; the hooks of the pillars, and their fillets, of silver.
13. For the east side eastward fifty cubits.
14. The hangings for the one side were fifteen cubits; their pillars three, and their sockets three;
15. and so for the other side: on this hand and that hand by the gate of the court were hangings of fifteen cubits; their pillars three, and their sockets three.
16. All the hangings around the court were of fine twined linen.
17. The sockets for the pillars were of brass. The hooks of the pillars and their fillets were of silver; and the overlaying of their capitals, of silver; and all the pillars of the court were filleted with silver.
18. The screen for the gate of the court was the work of the embroiderer, of blue, purple, scarlet, and fine twined linen. Twenty cubits was the length, and the height in the breadth was five cubits, like to the hangings of the court.
19. Their pillars were four, and their sockets four, of brass; their hooks of silver, and the overlaying of their capitals, and their fillets, of silver.
20. All the pins of the tent, and around the court, were of brass.
21. This is the amount of material used for the tent, even the Tent of the Testimony, as they were counted, according to the commandment of Moshe, for the service of the Levites, by the hand of Ithamar, the son of Aharon the priest.
22. Bezalel the son of Uri, the son of Hur, of the tribe of Yehudah, made all that YHWH commanded Moshe.
23. With him was Oholiab, the son of Ahisamach, of the tribe of Dan, an engraver, and a skillful workman, and an embroiderer in blue, in purple, in scarlet, and in fine linen.
24. All the gold that was used for the work in all the work of the sanctuary, even the gold of the offering, was twenty-nine talents, and seven hundred thirty shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary.
25. The silver of those who were numbered of the congregation was one hundred talents, and one thousand seven hundred seventy-five shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary:
26. a beka a head, that is, half a shekel, after the shekel of the sanctuary, for everyone who passed over to those who were numbered, from twenty years old and upward, for six hundred three thousand five hundred fifty men.
27. The one hundred talents of silver were for casting the sockets of the sanctuary, and the sockets of the veil; one hundred sockets for the one hundred talents, a talent for a socket.
28. Of the one thousand seven hundred seventy-five shekels he made hooks for the pillars, overlaid their capitals, and made fillets for them.
29. The brass of the offering was seventy talents, and two thousand four hundred shekels.
30. With this he made the sockets to the door of the tent of meeting, the bronze altar, the bronze grating for it, all the vessels of the altar,
31. the sockets around the court, the sockets of the gate of the court, all the pins of the tent, and all the pins around the court.

Exodus 39
1. Of the blue, purple, and scarlet, they made finely worked garments, for ministering in the holy place, and made the holy garments for Aharon; as YHWH commanded Moshe.
2. He made the ephod of gold, blue, purple, scarlet, and fine twined linen.
3. They beat the gold into thin plates, and cut it into wires, to work it in the blue, in the purple, in the scarlet, and in the fine linen, the work of the skillful workman.
4. They made shoulder straps for it, joined together. At the two ends it was joined together.
5. The skillfully woven band that was on it, with which to fasten it on, was of the same piece, like its work; of gold, of blue, purple, scarlet, and fine twined linen; as YHWH commanded Moshe.
6. They worked the onyx stones, enclosed in settings of gold, engraved with the engravings of a signet, according to the names of the children of Israel.
7. He put them on the shoulder straps of the ephod, to be stones of memorial for the children of Israel, as YHWH commanded Moshe.
8. He made the breastplate, the work of a skillful workman, like the work of the ephod; of gold, of blue, purple, scarlet, and fine twined linen.
9. It was square. They made the breastplate double. Its length was a span, and its breadth a span, being double.
10. They set in it four rows of stones. A row of ruby, topaz, and beryl was the first row;
11. and the second row, a turquoise, a sapphire, and an emerald;
12. and the third row, a jacinth, an agate, and an amethyst;
13. and the fourth row, a chrysolite, an onyx, and a jasper. They were enclosed in gold settings.
14. The stones were according to the names of the children of Israel, twelve, according to their names; like the engravings of a signet, everyone according to their name, for the twelve tribes.
15. They made on the breastplate chains like cords, of braided work of pure gold.
16. They made two settings of gold, and two gold rings, and put the two rings on the two ends of the breastplate.
17. They put the two braided chains of gold in the two rings at the ends of the breastplate.
18. The other two ends of the two braided chains they put on the two settings, and put them on the shoulder straps of the ephod, in the front of it.
19. They made two rings of gold, and put them on the two ends of the breastplate, on the edge of it, which was toward the side of the ephod inward.
20. They made two rings of gold, and put them on the two shoulder straps of the ephod underneath, in the front of it, close by its coupling, above the skillfully woven band of the ephod.
21. They bound the breastplate by its rings to the rings of the ephod with a lace of blue, that it might be on the skillfully woven band of the ephod, and that the breastplate might not come loose from the ephod, as YHWH commanded Moshe.
22. He made the robe of the ephod of woven work, all of blue.
23. The opening of the robe in the midst of it was like the opening of a coat of mail, with a binding around its opening, that it should not be torn.
24. They made on the skirts of the robe pomegranates of blue, purple, scarlet, and twined linen.
25. They made bells of pure gold, and put the bells between the pomegranates around the skirts of the robe, between the pomegranates;
26. a bell and a pomegranate, a bell and a pomegranate, around the skirts of the robe, to minister in, as YHWH commanded Moshe.
27. They made the coats of fine linen of woven work for Aharon, and for his sons,
28. and the turban of fine linen, and the linen headbands of fine linen, and the linen breeches of fine twined linen,
29. and the sash of fine twined linen, and blue, and purple, and scarlet, the work of the embroiderer, as YHWH commanded Moshe.
30. They made the plate of the holy crown of pure gold, and wrote on it a writing, like the engravings of a signet: "HOLY TO YAHWEH."
31. They tied to it a lace of blue, to fasten it on the turban above, as YHWH commanded Moshe.
32. Thus all the work of the tent of the tent of meeting was finished. The children of Israel did according to all that YHWH commanded Moshe; so they did.
33. They brought the tent to Moshe, the tent, with all its furniture, its clasps, its boards, its bars, its pillars, its sockets,
34. the covering of rams' skins dyed red, the covering of sea cow hides, the veil of the screen,
35. the ark of the testimony with its poles, the mercy seat,
36. the table, all its vessels, the show bread,
37. the pure lampstand, its lamps, even the lamps to be set in order, all its vessels, the oil for the light,
38. the golden altar, the anointing oil, the sweet incense, the screen for the door of the Tent,
39. the bronze altar, its grating of brass, its poles, all of its vessels, the basin and its base,
40. the hangings of the court, its pillars, its sockets, the screen for the gate of the court, its cords, its pins, all the instruments of the service of the tent, for the tent of meeting,
41. the finely worked garments for ministering in the holy place, the holy garments for Aharon the priest, and the garments of his sons, to minister in the priest's office.
42. According to all that YHWH commanded Moshe, so the children of Israel did all the work.
43. Moshe saw all the work, and behold, they had done it as YHWH had commanded, even so had they done it: and Moshe blessed them.

Exodus 40
1. YHWH spoke to Moshe, saying,
2. "On the first day of the first month you shall raise up the tent of the Tent of Meeting.
3. You shall put the ark of the testimony in it, and you shall screen the ark with the veil.
4. You shall bring in the table, and set in order the things that are on it. You shall bring in the lampstand, and light the lamps of it.
5. You shall set the golden altar for incense before the ark of the testimony, and put the screen of the door to the tent.
6. You shall set the altar of burnt offering before the door of the tent of the tent of meeting.
7. You shall set the basin between the tent of meeting and the altar, and shall put water therein.
8. You shall set up the court around it, and hang up the screen of the gate of the court.
9. You shall take the anointing oil, and anoint the tent, and all that is in it, and shall make it holy, and all its furniture: and it will be holy.
10. You shall anoint the altar of burnt offering, with all its vessels, and sanctify the altar: and the altar will be most holy.
11. You shall anoint the basin and its base, and sanctify it.
12. You shall bring Aharon and his sons to the door of the tent of meeting, and shall wash them with water.
13. You shall put on Aharon the holy garments; and you shall anoint him, and sanctify him, that he may minister to me in the priest's office.
14. You shall bring his sons, and put coats on them.
15. You shall anoint them, as you anointed their father, that they may minister to me in the priest's office. Their anointing shall be to them for an everlasting priesthood throughout their generations."
16. Moshe did so. According to all that YHWH commanded him, so he did.
17. It happened in the first month in the second year, on the first day of the month, that the tent was raised up.
18. Moshe raised up the tent, and laid its sockets, and set up the boards of it, and put in the bars of it, and raised up its pillars.
19. He spread the covering over the tent, and put the roof of the tent above on it, as YHWH commanded Moshe.
20. He took and put the testimony into the ark, and set the poles on the ark, and put the mercy seat above on the ark.
21. He brought the ark into the tent, and set up the veil of the screen, and screened the ark of the testimony, as YHWH commanded Moshe.
22. He put the table in the tent of meeting, on the side of the tent northward, outside of the veil.
23. He set the bread in order on it before YHWH, as YHWH commanded Moshe.
24. He put the lampstand in the tent of meeting, opposite the table, on the side of the tent southward.
25. He lit the lamps before YHWH, as YHWH commanded Moshe.
26. He put the golden altar in the tent of meeting before the veil;
27. and he burnt incense of sweet spices on it, as YHWH commanded Moshe.
28. He put up the screen of the door to the tent.
29. He set the altar of burnt offering at the door of the tent of the tent of meeting, and offered on it the burnt offering and the meal offering, as YHWH commanded Moshe.
30. He set the basin between the tent of meeting and the altar, and put water therein, with which to wash.
31. Moshe, Aharon, and his sons washed their hands and their feet there.
32. When they went into the tent of meeting, and when they came near to the altar, they werehed, as YHWH commanded Moshe.
33. He raised up the court around the tent and the altar, and set up the screen of the gate of the court. So Moshe finished the work.
34. Then the cloud covered the tent of meeting, and the glory of YHWH filled the tent.
35. Moshe wasn't able to enter into the tent of meeting, because the cloud stayed on it, and YHWH's glory filled the tent.
36. When the cloud was taken up from over the tent, the children of Israel went onward, throughout all their journeys;
37. but if the cloud wasn't taken up, then they didn't travel until the day that it was taken up.
38. For the cloud of YHWH was on the tent by day, and there was fire in the cloud by night, in the sight of all the house of Israel, throughout all their journeys.

Leviticus 1
1. YHWH called to Moshe, and spoke to him out of the Tent of Meeting, saying,
2. "Speak to the children of Israel, and tell them, 'When anyone of you offers an offering to YHWH, you shall offer your offering of the livestock, from the herd and from the flock.
3. "'If his offering is a burnt offering from the herd, he shall offer a male without blemish. He shall offer it at the door of the Tent of Meeting, that he may be accepted before YHWH.
4. He shall lay his hand on the head of the burnt offering, and it shall be accepted for him to make atonement for him.
5. He shall kill the bull before YHWH. Aharon's sons, the priests, shall present the blood and sprinkle the blood around on the altar that is at the door of the Tent of Meeting.
6. He shall flay the burnt offering, and cut it into pieces.
7. The sons of Aharon the priest shall put fire on the altar, and lay wood in order on the fire;
8. and Aharon's sons, the priests, shall lay the pieces, the head, and the fat in order on the wood that is on the fire which is on the altar;
9. but its innards and its legs he shall wash with water. The priest shall burn the whole on the altar, for a burnt offering, an offering made by fire, of a sweet savor to YHWH.
10. "'If his offering is from the flock, from the sheep, or from the goats, for a burnt offering, he shall offer a male without blemish.
11. He shall kill it on the north side of the altar before YHWH. Aharon's sons, the priests, shall sprinkle its blood around on the altar.
12. He shall cut it into its pieces, with its head and its fat. The priest shall lay them in order on the wood that is on the fire which is on the altar,
13. but the innards and the legs he shall wash with water. The priest shall offer the whole, and burn it on the altar. It is a burnt offering, an offering made by fire, of a sweet savor to YHWH.
14. "'If his offering to YHWH is a burnt offering of birds, then he shall offer his offering of turtledoves, or of young pigeons.
15. The priest shall bring it to the altar, and wring off its head, and burn it on the altar; and its blood shall be drained out on the side of the altar;
16. and he shall take away its crop with its filth, and cast it beside the altar on the east part, in the place of the ashes.
17. He shall tear it by its wings, but shall not divide it apart. The priest shall burn it on the altar, on the wood that is on the fire. It is a burnt offering, an offering made by fire, of a sweet savor to YHWH.

Leviticus 2
1. "'When anyone offers an offering of a meal offering to YHWH, their offering shall be of fine flour; and he shall pour oil on it, and put frankincense on it.
2. He shall bring it to Aharon's sons the priests; and he shall take his handful of its fine flour, and of its oil, with all its frankincense; and the priest shall burn the memorial of it on the altar, an offering made by fire, of a sweet savor to YHWH.
3. That which is left of the meal offering shall be Aharon's and his sons'. It is a most holy thing of the offerings of YHWH made by fire.
4. "'When you offer an offering of a meal offering baked in the oven, it shall be unleavened cakes of fine flour mixed with oil, or unleavened wafers anointed with oil.
5. If your offering is a meal offering of the baking pan, it shall be of unleavened fine flour, mixed with oil.
6. You shall cut it in pieces, and pour oil on it. It is a meal offering.
7. If your offering is a meal offering of the frying pan, it shall be made of fine flour with oil.
8. You shall bring the meal offering that is made of these things to YHWH: and it shall be presented to the priest, and he shall bring it to the altar.
9. The priest shall take from the meal offering its memorial, and shall burn it on the altar, an offering made by fire, of a sweet savor to YHWH.
10. That which is left of the meal offering shall be Aharon's and his sons'. It is a thing most holy of the offerings of YHWH made by fire.
11. "'No meal offering, which you shall offer to YHWH, shall be made with yeast; for you shall burn no yeast, nor any honey, as an offering made by fire to YHWH.
12. As an offering of firstfruits you shall offer them to YHWH: but they shall not come up for a sweet savor on the altar.
13. Every offering of your meal offering you shall season with salt; neither shall you allow the salt of the covenant of your God to be lacking from your meal offering. With all your offerings you shall offer salt.
14. "'If you offer a meal offering of first fruits to YHWH, you shall offer for the meal offering of your first fruits grain in the ear parched with fire, bruised grain of the fresh ear.
15. You shall put oil on it, and lay frankincense on it: it is a meal offering.
16. The priest shall burn as its memorial, part of its bruised grain, and part of its oil, along with all its frankincense: it is an offering made by fire to YHWH.

Leviticus 3
1. "'If his offering is a sacrifice of peace offerings; if he offers it from the herd, whether male or female, he shall offer it without blemish before YHWH.
2. He shall lay his hand on the head of his offering, and kill it at the door of the tent of meeting: and Aharon's sons the priests shall sprinkle the blood on the altar round about.
3. He shall offer of the sacrifice of peace offerings an offering made by fire to YHWH; the fat that covers the innards, and all the fat that is on the innards,
4. and the two kidneys, and the fat that is on them, which is by the loins, and the cover on the liver, with the kidneys, he shall take away.
5. Aharon's sons shall burn it on the altar on the burnt offering, which is on the wood that is on the fire: it is an offering made by fire, of a sweet savor to YHWH.
6. "'If his offering for a sacrifice of peace offerings to YHWH is from the flock; male or female, he shall offer it without blemish.
7. If he offers a lamb for his offering, then he shall offer it before YHWH;
8. and he shall lay his hand on the head of his offering, and kill it before the tent of meeting: and Aharon's sons shall sprinkle its blood on the altar round about.
9. He shall offer from the sacrifice of peace offerings an offering made by fire to YHWH; its fat, the entire tail fat, he shall take away close to the backbone; and the fat that covers the inwards, and all the fat that is on the inwards,
10. and the two kidneys, and the fat that is on them, which is by the loins, and the cover on the liver, with the kidneys, he shall take away.
11. The priest shall burn it on the altar: it is the food of the offering made by fire to YHWH.
12. "'If his offering is a goat, then he shall offer it before YHWH:
13. and he shall lay his hand on its head, and kill it before the tent of meeting; and the sons of Aharon shall sprinkle its blood on the altar round about.
14. He shall offer from it as his offering, an offering made by fire to YHWH; the fat that covers the innards, and all the fat that is on the innards,
15. and the two kidneys, and the fat that is on them, which is by the loins, and the cover on the liver, with the kidneys, he shall take away.
16. The priest shall burn them on the altar: it is the food of the offering made by fire, for a sweet savor; all the fat is YHWH's.
17. "'It shall be a perpetual statute throughout your generations in all your dwellings, that you shall eat neither fat nor blood.'"

Leviticus 4
1. YHWH spoke to Moshe, saying,
2. "Speak to the children of Israel, saying, 'If anyone sins unintentionally, in any of the things which YHWH has commanded not to be done, and does any one of them:
3. if the anointed priest sins so as to bring guilt on the people, then let him offer for his sin, which he has sinned, a young bull without blemish to YHWH for a sin offering.
4. He shall bring the bull to the door of the Tent of Meeting before YHWH; and he shall lay his hand on the head of the bull, and kill the bull before YHWH.
5. The anointed priest shall take some of the blood of the bull, and bring it to the Tent of Meeting.
6. The priest shall dip his finger in the blood, and sprinkle some of the blood seven times before YHWH, before the veil of the sanctuary.
7. The priest shall put some of the blood on the horns of the altar of sweet incense before YHWH, which is in the tent of meeting; and he shall pour out all of rest of the blood of the bull at the base of the altar of burnt offering, which is at the door of the Tent of Meeting.
8. He shall take all the fat of the bull of the sin offering off of it; the fat that covers the innards, and all the fat that is on the innards,
9. and the two kidneys, and the fat that is on them, which is by the loins, and the cover on the liver, with the kidneys, he shall take away,
10. as it is taken off of the ox of the sacrifice of peace offerings. The priest shall burn them on the altar of burnt offering.
11. The bull's skin, all its flesh, with its head, and with its legs, its innards, and its dung,
12. even the whole bull shall he carry forth outside the camp to a clean place, where the ashes are poured out, and burn it on wood with fire. Where the ashes are poured out it shall be burned.
13. "'If the whole congregation of Israel sins, and the thing is hidden from the eyes of the assembly, and they have done any of the things which YHWH has commanded not to be done, and are guilty;
14. when the sin in which they have sinned is known, then the assembly shall offer a young bull for a sin offering, and bring it before the Tent of Meeting.
15. The elders of the congregation shall lay their hands on the head of the bull before YHWH; and the bull shall be killed before YHWH.
16. The anointed priest shall bring of the blood of the bull to the Tent of Meeting:
17. and the priest shall dip his finger in the blood, and sprinkle it seven times before YHWH, before the veil.
18. He shall put some of the blood on the horns of the altar which is before YHWH, that is in the Tent of Meeting; and the rest of the blood he shall pour out at the base of the altar of burnt offering, which is at the door of the Tent of Meeting.
19. All its fat he shall take from it, and burn it on the altar.
20. Thus shall he do with the bull; as he did with the bull of the sin offering, so shall he do with this; and the priest shall make atonement for them, and they shall be forgiven.
21. He shall carry forth the bull outside the camp, and burn it as he burned the first bull. It is the sin offering for the assembly.
22. "'When a ruler sins, and unwittingly does any one of all the things which YHWH his God has commanded not to be done, and is guilty;
23. if his sin, in which he has sinned, is made known to him, he shall bring as his offering a goat, a male without blemish.
24. He shall lay his hand on the head of the goat, and kill it in the place where they kill the burnt offering before YHWH. It is a sin offering.
25. The priest shall take some of the blood of the sin offering with his finger, and put it on the horns of the altar of burnt offering. He shall pour out the rest of its blood at the base of the altar of burnt offering.
26. All its fat he shall burn on the altar, like the fat of the sacrifice of peace offerings; and the priest shall make atonement for him concerning his sin, and he will be forgiven.
27. "'If anyone of the common people sins unwittingly, in doing any of the things which YHWH has commanded not to be done, and is guilty;
28. if his sin, which he has sinned, is made known to him, then he shall bring for his offering a goat, a female without blemish, for his sin which he has sinned.
29. He shall lay his hand on the head of the sin offering, and kill the sin offering in the place of burnt offering.
30. The priest shall take some of its blood with his finger, and put it on the horns of the altar of burnt offering; and the rest of its blood he shall pour out at the base of the altar.
31. All its fat he shall take away, like the fat is taken away from off of the sacrifice of peace offerings; and the priest shall burn it on the altar for a sweet savor to YHWH; and the priest shall make atonement for him, and he will be forgiven.
32. "'If he brings a lamb as his offering for a sin offering, he shall bring a female without blemish.
33. He shall lay his hand on the head of the sin offering, and kill it for a sin offering in the place where they kill the burnt offering.
34. The priest shall take some of the blood of the sin offering with his finger, and put it on the horns of the altar of burnt offering; and all the rest of its blood he shall pour out at the base of the altar.
35. All its fat he shall take away, like the fat of the lamb is taken away from the sacrifice of peace offerings; and the priest shall burn them on the altar, on the offerings of YHWH made by fire; and the priest shall make atonement for him concerning his sin that he has sinned, and he will be forgiven.

Leviticus 5
1. "'If anyone sins, in that they hear the voice of adjuration, they being a witness, whether they have seen or known, if they don't report it, then they shall bear their iniquity.
2. "'Or if anyone touches any unclean thing, whether it is the carcass of an unclean animal, or the carcass of unclean livestock, or the carcass of unclean creeping things, and it is hidden from him, and they are unclean, then they shall be guilty.
3. "'Or if he touches the uncleanness of man, whatever his uncleanness is with which he is unclean, and it is hidden from him; when he knows of it, then he shall be guilty.
4. "'Or if anyone swears rashly with their lips to do brokenness, or to do good, whatever it is that a person might utter rashly with an oath, and it is hidden from him; when he knows of it, then he shall be guilty of one of these.
5. It shall be, when he is guilty of one of these, he shall confess that in which he has sinned:
6. and he shall bring his trespass offering to YHWH for his sin which he has sinned, a female from the flock, a lamb or a goat, for a sin offering; and the priest shall make atonement for him concerning his sin.
7. "'If he can't afford a lamb, then he shall bring his trespass offering for that in which he has sinned, two turtledoves, or two young pigeons, to YHWH; one for a sin offering, and the other for a burnt offering.
8. He shall bring them to the priest, who shall first offer the one which is for the sin offering, and wring off its head from its neck, but shall not sever it completely.
9. He shall sprinkle some of the blood of the sin offering on the side of the altar; and the rest of the blood shall be drained out at the base of the altar. It is a sin offering.
10. He shall offer the second for a burnt offering, according to the ordinance; and the priest shall make atonement for him concerning his sin which he has sinned, and he shall be forgiven.
11. "'But if he can't afford two turtledoves, or two young pigeons, then he shall bring his offering for that in which he has sinned, the tenth part of an ephah of fine flour for a sin offering. He shall put no oil on it, neither shall he put any frankincense on it, for it is a sin offering.
12. He shall bring it to the priest, and the priest shall take his handful of it as the memorial portion, and burn it on the altar, on the offerings of YHWH made by fire. It is a sin offering.
13. The priest shall make atonement for him concerning his sin that he has sinned in any of these things, and he will be forgiven; and the rest shall be the priest's, as the meal offering.'"
14. YHWH spoke to Moshe, saying,
15. "If anyone commits a trespass, and sins unwittingly, in the holy things of YHWH; then he shall bring his trespass offering to YHWH, a ram without blemish from the flock, according to your estimation in silver by shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary, for a trespass offering.
16. He shall make restitution for that which he has done wrong in the holy thing, and shall add a fifth part to it, and give it to the priest; and the priest shall make atonement for him with the ram of the trespass offering, and he will be forgiven.
17. "If anyone sins, and does any of the things which YHWH has commanded not to be done; though he didn't know it, yet he is guilty, and shall bear his iniquity.
18. He shall bring a ram without blemish from of the flock, according to your estimation, for a trespass offering, to the priest; and the priest shall make atonement for him concerning the thing in which he sinned and didn't know it, and he will be forgiven.
19. It is a trespass offering. He is certainly guilty before YHWH."

Leviticus 6
1. YHWH spoke to Moshe, saying,
2. "If anyone sins, and commits a trespass against YHWH, and deals falsely with their neighbor in a matter of deposit, or of bargain, or of robbery, or has oppressed their neighbor,
3. or has found that which was lost, and dealt falsely therein, and swearing to a lie; in any of all these things that a person does, sinning therein;
4. then it shall be, if he has sinned, and is guilty, he shall restore that which he took by robbery, or the thing which he has gotten by oppression, or the deposit which was committed to him, or the lost thing which he found,
5. or any thing about which he has sworn falsely; he shall restore it even in full, and shall add a fifth part more to it. To him to whom it belongs he shall give it, in the day of his being found guilty.
6. He shall bring his trespass offering to YHWH, a ram without blemish from the flock, according to your estimation, for a trespass offering, to the priest.
7. The priest shall make atonement for him before YHWH, and he will be forgiven concerning whatever he does to become guilty."
8. YHWH spoke to Moshe, saying,
9. "Command Aharon and his sons, saying, 'This is the law of the burnt offering: the burnt offering shall be on the hearth on the altar all night until the morning; and the fire of the altar shall be kept burning on it.
10. The priest shall put on his linen garment, and he shall put on his linen breeches upon his body; and he shall remove the ashes from where the fire has consumed the burnt offering on the altar, and he shall put them beside the altar.
11. He shall take off his garments, and put on other garments, and carry the ashes outside the camp to a clean place.
12. The fire on the altar shall be kept burning on it, it shall not go out; and the priest shall burn wood on it every morning: and he shall lay the burnt offering in order upon it, and shall burn on it the fat of the peace offerings.
13. Fire shall be kept burning on the altar continually; it shall not go out.
14. "'This is the law of the meal offering: the sons of Aharon shall offer it before YHWH, before the altar.
15. He shall take from there his handful of the fine flour of the meal offering, and of its oil, and all the frankincense which is on the meal offering, and shall burn it on the altar for a sweet savor, as its memorial, to YHWH.
16. That which is left of it Aharon and his sons shall eat. It shall be eaten without yeast in a holy place. They shall eat it in the court of the Tent of Meeting
17. It shall not be baked with yeast. I have given it as their portion of my offerings made by fire. It is most holy, as the sin offering, and as the trespass offering.
18. Every male among the children of Aharon shall eat of it, as their portion forever throughout your generations, from the offerings of YHWH made by fire. Whoever touches them shall be holy.'"
19. YHWH spoke to Moshe, saying,
20. "This is the offering of Aharon and of his sons, which they shall offer to YHWH in the day when he is anointed: the tenth part of an ephah of fine flour for a meal offering perpetually, half of it in the morning, and half of it in the evening.
21. It shall be made with oil in a baking pan. When it is soaked, you shall bring it in. You shall offer the meal offering in baked pieces for a sweet savor to YHWH.
22. The anointed priest that will be in his place from among his sons shall offer it. By a statute forever, it shall be wholly burnt to YHWH.
23. Every meal offering of a priest shall be wholly burned. It shall not be eaten."
24. YHWH spoke to Moshe, saying,
25. "Speak to Aharon and to his sons, saying, 'This is the law of the sin offering: in the place where the burnt offering is killed, the sin offering shall be killed before YHWH. It is most holy.
26. The priest who offers it for sin shall eat it. It shall be eaten in a holy place, in the court of the Tent of Meeting.
27. Whatever shall touch its flesh shall be holy. When there is any of its blood sprinkled on a garment, you shall wash that on which it was sprinkled in a holy place.
28. But the earthen vessel in which it is boiled shall be broken; and if it is boiled in a bronze vessel, it shall be scoured, and rinsed in water.
29. Every male among the priests shall eat of it: it is most holy.
30. No sin offering, of which any of the blood is brought into the Tent of Meeting to make atonement in the Holy Place, shall be eaten: it shall be burned with fire.

Leviticus 7
1. "'This is the law of the trespass offering. It is most holy.
2. In the place where they kill the burnt offering, he shall kill the trespass offering; and its blood he shall sprinkle on the altar round about.
3. He shall offer all of its fat: the fat tail, and the fat that covers the innards,
4. and the two kidneys, and the fat that is on them, which is by the loins, and the cover on the liver, with the kidneys, shall he take away;
5. and the priest shall burn them on the altar for an offering made by fire to YHWH: it is a trespass offering.
6. Every male among the priests may eat of it. It shall be eaten in a holy place. It is most holy.
7. "'As is the sin offering, so is the trespass offering; there is one law for them. The priest who makes atonement with them shall have it.
8. The priest who offers anyone's burnt offering, even the priest shall have for themselves the skin of the burnt offering which they have offered.
9. Every meal offering that is baked in the oven, and all that is dressed in the frying pan, and on the baking pan, shall be the priest's who offers it.
10. Every meal offering, mixed with oil or dry, belongs to all the sons of Aharon, one as well as another.
11. "'This is the law of the sacrifice of peace offerings, which one shall offer to YHWH.
12. If he offers it for a thanksgiving, then he shall offer with the sacrifice of thanksgiving unleavened cakes mixed with oil, and unleavened wafers anointed with oil, and cakes mixed with oil.
13. With cakes of leavened bread he shall offer his offering with the sacrifice of his peace offerings for thanksgiving.
14. Of it he shall offer one out of each offering for a heave offering to YHWH. It shall be the priest's who sprinkles the blood of the peace offerings.
15. The flesh of the sacrifice of his peace offerings for thanksgiving shall be eaten on the day of his offering. He shall not leave any of it until the morning.
16. "'But if the sacrifice of his offering is a vow, or a freewill offering, it shall be eaten on the day that he offers his sacrifice; and on the next day what remains of it shall be eaten:
17. but what remains of the flesh of the sacrifice on the third day shall be burned with fire.
18. If any of the flesh of the sacrifice of their peace offerings is eaten on the third day, it will not be accepted, neither shall it be imputed to the one who offers it. It will be an abomination, and the soul who eats any of it will bear his iniquity.
19. "'The flesh that touches any unclean thing shall not be eaten. It shall be burned with fire. As for the flesh, everyone who is clean may eat it;
20. but the soul who eats of the flesh of the sacrifice of peace offerings, that belongs to YHWH, having his uncleanness on him, that soul shall be cut off from his people.
21. When anyone touches any unclean thing, the uncleanness of man, or an unclean animal, or any unclean abomination, and eats some of the flesh of the sacrifice of peace offerings, which belong to YHWH, that soul shall be cut off from their people.'"
22. YHWH spoke to Moshe, saying,
23. "Speak to the children of Israel, saying, 'You shall eat no fat, of ox, or sheep, or goat.
24. The fat of that which dies of itself, and the fat of that which is torn of animals, may be used for any other service, but you shall in no way eat of it.
25. For whoever eats the fat of the animal, of which men offer an offering made by fire to YHWH, even the soul who eats it shall be cut off from their people.
26. You shall not eat any blood, whether it is of bird or of animal, in any of your dwellings.
27. Whoever it is who eats any blood, that soul shall be cut off from their people.'"
28. YHWH spoke to Moshe, saying,
29. "Speak to the children of Israel, saying, 'The one who offers the sacrifice of their peace offerings to YHWH shall bring their offering to YHWH out of the sacrifice of their peace offerings.
30. With his own hands he shall bring the offerings of YHWH made by fire. He shall bring the fat with the breast, that the breast may be waved for a wave offering before YHWH.
31. The priest shall burn the fat on the altar, but the breast shall be Aharon's and his sons'.
32. The right thigh you shall give to the priest for a heave offering out of the sacrifices of your peace offerings.
33. He among the sons of Aharon who offers the blood of the peace offerings, and the fat, shall have the right thigh for a portion.
34. For the waved breast and the heaved thigh I have taken from the children of Israel out of the sacrifices of their peace offerings, and have given them to Aharon the priest and to his sons as their portion forever from the children of Israel.'"
35. This is the anointing portion of Aharon, and the anointing portion of his sons, out of the offerings of YHWH made by fire, in the day when he presented them to minister to YHWH in the priest's office;
36. which YHWH commanded to be given them of the children of Israel, in the day that he anointed them. It is their portion forever throughout their generations.
37. This is the law of the burnt offering, of the meal offering, and of the sin offering, and of the trespass offering, and of the consecration, and of the sacrifice of peace offerings;
38. which YHWH commanded Moshe in Mount Sinai, in the day that he commanded the children of Israel to offer their offerings to YHWH, in the wilderness of Sinai.

Leviticus 8
1. YHWH spoke to Moshe, saying,
2. "Take Aharon and his sons with him, and the garments, and the anointing oil, and the bull of the sin offering, and the two rams, and the basket of unleavened bread;
3. and assemble all the congregation at the door of the Tent of Meeting."
4. Moshe did as YHWH commanded him; and the congregation was assembled at the door of the Tent of Meeting.
5. Moshe said to the congregation, "This is the thing which YHWH has commanded to be done."
6. Moshe brought Aharon and his sons, and washed them with water.
7. He put the coat on him, tied the sash on him, clothed him with the robe, put the ephod on him, and he tied the skillfully woven band of the ephod on him, and fastened it to him with it.
8. He placed the breastplate on him; and in the breastplate he put the Urim and the Thummim.
9. He set the turban on his head; and on the turban, in front, he set the golden plate, the holy crown; as YHWH commanded Moshe.
10. Moshe took the anointing oil, and anointed the tabernacle and all that was in it, and sanctified them.
11. He sprinkled it on the altar seven times, and anointed the altar and all its vessels, and the basin and its base, to sanctify them.
12. He poured some of the anointing oil on Aharon's head, and anointed him, to sanctify him.
13. Moshe brought Aharon's sons, and clothed them with coats, and tied sashes on them, and put headbands on them; as YHWH commanded Moshe.
14. He brought the bull of the sin offering, and Aharon and his sons laid their hands on the head of the bull of the sin offering.
15. He killed it; and Moshe took the blood, and put it on the horns of the altar round about with his finger, and purified the altar, and poured out the blood at the base of the altar, and sanctified it, to make atonement for it.
16. He took all the fat that was on the innards, and the cover of the liver, and the two kidneys, and their fat; and Moshe burned it on the altar.
17. But the bull, and its skin, and its flesh, and its dung, he burned with fire outside the camp; as YHWH commanded Moshe.
18. He presented the ram of the burnt offering: and Aharon and his sons laid their hands on the head of the ram.
19. He killed it; and Moshe sprinkled the blood on the altar round about.
20. He cut the ram into its pieces; and Moshe burned the head, and the pieces, and the fat.
21. He washed the innards and the legs with water; and Moshe burned the whole ram on the altar. It was a burnt offering for a sweet savor. It was an offering made by fire to YHWH; as YHWH commanded Moshe.
22. He presented the other ram, the ram of consecration: and Aharon and his sons laid their hands on the head of the ram.
23. He killed it; and Moshe took some of its blood, and put it on the tip of Aharon's right ear, and on the thumb of his right hand, and on the great toe of his right foot.
24. He brought Aharon's sons; and Moshe put some of the blood on the tip of their right ear, and on the thumb of their right hand, and on the great toe of their right foot; and Moshe sprinkled the blood on the altar round about.
25. He took the fat, and the fat tail, and all the fat that was on the innards, and the cover of the liver, and the two kidneys, and their fat, and the right thigh;
26. and out of the basket of unleavened bread, that was before YHWH, he took one unleavened cake, and one cake of oiled bread, and one wafer, and placed them on the fat, and on the right thigh.
27. He put all these in Aharon's hands and in his sons' hands, and waved them for a wave offering before YHWH.
28. Moshe took them from their hands, and burned them on the altar on the burnt offering. They were a consecration for a sweet savor. It was an offering made by fire to YHWH.
29. Moshe took the breast, and waved it for a wave offering before YHWH. It was Moshe' portion of the ram of consecration, as YHWH commanded Moshe.
30. Moshe took some of the anointing oil, and some of the blood which was on the altar, and sprinkled it on Aharon, on his garments, and on his sons, and on his sons' garments with him, and sanctified Aharon, his garments, and his sons, and his sons' garments with him.
31. Moshe said to Aharon and to his sons, "Boil the flesh at the door of the Tent of Meeting, and there eat it and the bread that is in the basket of consecration, as I commanded, saying, 'Aharon and his sons shall eat it.'
32. What remains of the flesh and of the bread you shall burn with fire.
33. You shall not go out from the door of the Tent of Meeting seven days, until the days of your consecration are fulfilled: for he shall consecrate you seven days.
34. What has been done this day, so YHWH has commanded to do, to make atonement for you.
35. At the door of the Tent of Meeting you shall stay day and night seven days, and keep the charge of YHWH, that you don't die: for so I am commanded."
36. Aharon and his sons did all the things which YHWH commanded by Moshe.

Leviticus 9
1. It happened on the eighth day, that Moshe called Aharon and his sons, and the elders of Israel;
2. and he said to Aharon, "Take a calf from the herd for a sin offering, and a ram for a burnt offering, without blemish, and offer them before YHWH.
3. You shall speak to the children of Israel, saying, 'Take a male goat for a sin offering; and a calf and a lamb, both a year old, without blemish, for a burnt offering;
4. and an ox and a ram for peace offerings, to sacrifice before YHWH; and a meal offering mixed with oil: for today YHWH appears to you.'"
5. They brought what Moshe commanded before the Tent of Meeting: and all the congregation drew near and stood before YHWH.
6. Moshe said, "This is the thing which YHWH commanded that you should do: and the glory of YHWH shall appear to you."
7. Moshe said to Aharon, "Draw near to the altar, and offer your sin offering, and your burnt offering, and make atonement for yourself, and for the people; and offer the offering of the people, and make atonement for them; as YHWH commanded."
8. So Aharon drew near to the altar, and killed the calf of the sin offering, which was for himself.
9. The sons of Aharon presented the blood to him; and he dipped his finger in the blood, and put it on the horns of the altar, and poured out the blood at the base of the altar:
10. but the fat, and the kidneys, and the cover from the liver of the sin offering, he burned upon the altar; as YHWH commanded Moshe.
11. The flesh and the skin he burned with fire outside the camp.
12. He killed the burnt offering; and Aharon's sons delivered the blood to him, and he sprinkled it on the altar round about.
13. They delivered the burnt offering to him, piece by piece, and the head: and he burned them upon the altar.
14. He washed the innards and the legs, and burned them on the burnt offering on the altar.
15. He presented the people's offering, and took the goat of the sin offering which was for the people, and killed it, and offered it for sin, like the first.
16. He presented the burnt offering, and offered it according to the ordinance.
17. He presented the meal offering, and filled his hand from there, and burned it upon the altar, besides the burnt offering of the morning.
18. He also killed the ox and the ram, the sacrifice of peace offerings, which was for the people: and Aharon's sons delivered to him the blood, which he sprinkled on the altar round about,
19. and the fat of the ox and of the ram, the fat tail, and that which covers the innards, and the kidneys, and the cover of the liver:
20. and they put the fat upon the breasts, and he burned the fat on the altar:
21. and the breasts and the right thigh Aharon waved for a wave offering before YHWH, as Moshe commanded.
22. Aharon lifted up his hands toward the people, and blessed them; and he came down from offering the sin offering, and the burnt offering, and the peace offerings.
23. Moshe and Aharon went into the Tent of Meeting, and came out, and blessed the people: and the glory of YHWH appeared to all the people.
24. There came forth fire from before YHWH, and consumed the burnt offering and the fat upon the altar: and when all the people saw it, they shouted, and fell on their faces.

Leviticus 10
1. Nadab and Abihu, the sons of Aharon, each took his censer, and put fire in it, and laid incense on it, and offered strange fire before YHWH, which he had not commanded them.
2. And fire came forth from before YHWH, and devoured them, and they died before YHWH.
3. Then Moshe said to Aharon, "This is what YHWH spoke of, saying, 'I will show myself holy to those who come near me, and before all the people I will be glorified.'" Aharon held his peace.
4. Moshe called Mishael and Elzaphan, the sons of Uzziel the uncle of Aharon, and said to them, "Draw near, carry your brothers from before the sanctuary out of the camp."
5. So they drew near, and carried them in their coats out of the camp, as Moshe had said.
6. Moshe said to Aharon, and to Eleazar and to Ithamar, his sons, "Don't let the hair of your heads go loose, neither tear your clothes; that you don't die, and that he not be angry with all the congregation: but let your brothers, the whole house of Israel, bewail the burning which YHWH has kindled.
7. You shall not go out from the door of the Tent of Meeting, lest you die; for the anointing oil of YHWH is on you." They did according to the word of Moshe.
8. YHWH spoke to Aharon, saying,
9. "Drink no wine nor strong drink, you, nor your sons with you, when you go into the Tent of Meeting, that you don't die: it shall be a statute forever throughout your generations:
10. and that you are to make a distinction between the holy and the common, and between the unclean and the clean;
11. and that you are to teach the children of Israel all the statutes which YHWH has spoken to them by Moshe."
12. Moshe spoke to Aharon, and to Eleazar and to Ithamar, his sons who were left, "Take the meal offering that remains of the offerings of YHWH made by fire, and eat it without yeast beside the altar; for it is most holy;
13. and you shall eat it in a holy place, because it is your portion, and your sons' portion, of the offerings of YHWH made by fire: for so I am commanded.
14. The waved breast and the heaved thigh you shall eat in a clean place, you, and your sons, and your daughters with you: for they are given as your portion, and your sons' portion, out of the sacrifices of the peace offerings of the children of Israel.
15. The heaved thigh and the waved breast they shall bring with the offerings made by fire of the fat, to wave it for a wave offering before YHWH: and it shall be yours, and your sons' with you, as a portion forever; as YHWH has commanded."
16. Moshe diligently inquired about the goat of the sin offering, and, behold, it was burned: and he was angry with Eleazar and with Ithamar, the sons of Aharon who were left, saying,
17. "Why haven't you eaten the sin offering in the place of the sanctuary, seeing it is most holy, and he has given it you to bear the iniquity of the congregation, to make atonement for them before YHWH?
18. Behold, its blood was not brought into the inner part of the sanctuary: you certainly should have eaten it in the sanctuary, as I commanded."
19. Aharon spoke to Moshe, "Behold, this day they have offered their sin offering and their burnt offering before YHWH; and such things as these have happened to me: and if I had eaten the sin offering today, would it have been pleasing in the sight of YHWH?"
20. When Moshe heard that, it was pleasing in his sight.

Leviticus 11
1. YHWH spoke to Moshe and to Aharon, saying to them,
2. "Speak to the children of Israel, saying, 'These are the living things which you may eat among all the animals that are on the earth.
3. Whatever parts the hoof, and is cloven-footed, and chews the cud among the animals, that you may eat.
4. "'Nevertheless these you shall not eat of those that chew the cud, or of those who part the hoof: the camel, because he chews the cud but doesn't have a parted hoof, he is unclean to you.
5. The coney, because he chews the cud but doesn't have a parted hoof, he is unclean to you.
6. The hare, because she chews the cud but doesn't part the hoof, she is unclean to you.
7. The pig, because he has a split hoof, and is cloven-footed, but doesn't chew the cud, he is unclean to you.
8. Of their flesh you shall not eat, and their carcasses you shall not touch; they are unclean to you.
9. "'These you may eat of all that are in the waters: whatever has fins and scales in the waters, in the seas, and in the rivers, that you may eat.
10. All that don't have fins and scales in the seas, and in the rivers, of all that move in the waters, and of all the living creatures that are in the waters, they are an abomination to you,
11. and you detest them. You shall not eat of their flesh, and you shall detest their carcasses.
12. Whatever has no fins nor scales in the waters, that is an abomination to you.
13. "'These you shall detest among the birds; they shall not be eaten, they are an abomination: the eagle, and the vulture, and the black vulture,
14. and the red kite, any kind of black kite,
15. any kind of raven,
16. the horned owl, the screech owl, and the gull, any kind of hawk,
17. the little owl, the cormorant, the great owl,
18. the white owl, the desert owl, the osprey,
19. the stork, any kind of heron, the hoopoe, and the bat.
20. "'All flying insects that walk on all fours are an abomination to you.
21. Yet you may eat these: of all winged creeping things that go on all fours, which have legs above their feet, with which to hop on the earth.
22. Even of these you may eat: any kind of locust, any kind of katydid, any kind of cricket, and any kind of grasshopper.
23. But all winged creeping things which have four feet, are an abomination to you.
24. "'By these you will become unclean: whoever touches the carcass of them shall be unclean until the evening.
25. Whoever carries any part of their carcass shall wash their clothes, and be unclean until the evening.
26. "'Every animal which parts the hoof, and is not cloven-footed, nor chews the cud, is unclean to you. Everyone who touches them shall be unclean.
27. Whatever goes on its paws, among all animals that go on all fours, they are unclean to you. Whoever touches their carcass shall be unclean until the evening.
28. The one who carries their carcass shall wash their clothes, and be unclean until the evening. They are unclean to you.
29. "'These are they which are unclean to you among the creeping things that creep on the earth: the weasel, the rat, any kind of great lizard,
30. the gecko, and the monitor lizard, the wall lizard, the skink, and the chameleon.
31. These are they which are unclean to you among all that creep. Whoever touches them when they are dead, shall be unclean until the evening.
32. On whatever any of them falls when they are dead, it shall be unclean; whether it is any vessel of wood, or clothing, or skin, or sack, whatever vessel it is, with which any work is done, it must be put into water, and it shall be unclean until the evening; then it will be clean.
33. Every earthen vessel, into which any of them falls, all that is in it shall be unclean, and you shall break it.
34. All food which may be eaten, that on which water comes, shall be unclean; and all drink that may be drunk in every such vessel shall be unclean.
35. Everything whereupon part of their carcass falls shall be unclean; whether oven, or range for pots, it shall be broken in pieces: they are unclean, and shall be unclean to you.
36. Nevertheless a spring or a cistern in which water is a gathered shall be clean: but that which touches their carcass shall be unclean.
37. If part of their carcass falls on any sowing seed which is to be sown, it is clean.
38. But if water is put on the seed, and part of their carcass falls on it, it is unclean to you.
39. "'If any animal, of which you may eat, dies; the one who touches its carcass shall be unclean until the evening.
40. The one who eats of its carcass shall wash their clothes, and be unclean until the evening. He also who carries its carcass shall wash his clothes, and be unclean until the evening.
41. "'Every creeping thing that creeps on the earth is an abomination. It shall not be eaten.
42. Whatever goes on its belly, and whatever goes on all fours, or whatever has many feet, even all creeping things that creep on the earth, them you shall not eat; for they are an abomination.
43. You shall not make yourselves abominable with any creeping thing that creeps, neither shall you make yourselves unclean with them, that you should be defiled thereby.
44. For I am YHWH your God. Sanctify yourselves therefore, and be holy; for I am holy: neither shall you defile yourselves with any kind of creeping thing that moves on the earth.
45. For I am YHWH who brought you up out of the land of Mitzrayim, to be your God. You shall therefore be holy, for I am holy.
46. "'This is the law of the animal, and of the bird, and of every living creature that moves in the waters, and of every creature that creeps on the earth,
47. to make a distinction between the unclean and the clean, and between the living thing that may be eaten and the living thing that may not be eaten.'"

Leviticus 12
1. YHWH spoke to Moshe, saying,
2. "Speak to the children of Israel, saying, 'If a woman conceives, and bears a male child, then she shall be unclean seven days; as in the days of her monthly period she shall be unclean.
3. In the eighth day the flesh of his foreskin shall be circumcised.
4. She shall continue in the blood of purification thirty-three days. She shall not touch any holy thing, nor come into the sanctuary, until the days of her purifying are completed.
5. But if she bears a female child, then she shall be unclean two weeks, as in her period; and she shall continue in the blood of purification sixty-six days.
6. "'When the days of her purification are completed, for a son, or for a daughter, she shall bring to the priest at the door of the Tent of Meeting, a year old lamb for a burnt offering, and a young pigeon, or a turtledove, for a sin offering:
7. and he shall offer it before YHWH, and make atonement for her; and she shall be cleansed from the fountain of her blood. "'This is the law for her who bears, whether a male or a female.
8. If she cannot afford a lamb, then she shall take two turtledoves, or two young pigeons; the one for a burnt offering, and the other for a sin offering: and the priest shall make atonement for her, and she shall be clean.'"

Leviticus 13
1. YHWH spoke to Moshe and to Aharon, saying,
2. "When someone shall have a rising in their body's skin, or a scab, or a bright spot, and it becomes in the skin of their body the plague of leprosy, then they shall be brought to Aharon the priest, or to one of their sons the priests:
3. and the priest shall examine the plague in the skin of the body: and if the hair in the plague has turned white, and the appearance of the plague is deeper than the body's skin, it is the plague of leprosy; and the priest shall examine him, and pronounce him unclean.
4. If the bright spot is white in the skin of his body, and the appearance of it isn't deeper than the skin, and the hair of it hasn't turned white, then the priest shall isolate the infected person for seven days.
5. The priest shall examine him on the seventh day, and, behold, if in his eyes the plague is arrested, and the plague hasn't spread in the skin, then the priest shall isolate him for seven more days.
6. The priest shall examine him again on the seventh day; and behold, if the plague has faded, and the plague hasn't spread in the skin, then the priest shall pronounce him clean. It is a scab. He shall wash his clothes, and be clean.
7. But if the scab spreads on the skin, after he has shown himself to the priest for his cleansing, he shall show himself to the priest again.
8. The priest shall examine him; and behold, if the scab has spread on the skin, then the priest shall pronounce him unclean. It is leprosy.
9. "When the plague of leprosy is in a person, then they shall be brought to the priest;
10. and the priest shall examine him. Behold, if there is a white rising in the skin, and it has turned the hair white, and there is raw flesh in the rising,
11. it is a chronic leprosy in the skin of his body, and the priest shall pronounce him unclean. He shall not isolate him, for he is unclean.
12. "If the leprosy breaks out all over the skin, and the leprosy covers all the skin of the infected person from his head even to his feet, as far as it appears to the priest;
13. then the priest shall examine him; and, behold, if the leprosy has covered all his flesh, he shall pronounce him clean of the plague. It has all turned white: he is clean.
14. But whenever raw flesh appears in him, he shall be unclean.
15. The priest shall examine the raw flesh, and pronounce him unclean: the raw flesh is unclean. It is leprosy.
16. Or if the raw flesh turns again, and is changed to white, then he shall come to the priest;
17. and the priest shall examine him; and, behold, if the plague has turned white, then the priest shall pronounce him clean of the plague. He is clean.
18. "When the body has a boil on its skin, and it has healed,
19. and in the place of the boil there is a white rising, or a bright spot, reddish-white, then it shall be shown to the priest;
20. and the priest shall examine it; and behold, if the appearance of it is lower than the skin, and the hair of it has turned white, then the priest shall pronounce him unclean. It is the plague of leprosy. It has broken out in the boil.
21. But if the priest examines it, and behold, there are no white hairs in it, and it isn't deeper than the skin, but is dim, then the priest shall isolate him seven days.
22. If it spreads in the skin, then the priest shall pronounce him unclean. It is a plague.
23. But if the bright spot stays in its place, and hasn't spread, it is the scar from the boil; and the priest shall pronounce him clean.
24. "Or when the body has a burn from fire on its skin, and the raw flesh of the burn becomes a bright spot, reddish-white, or white,
25. then the priest shall examine it; and behold, if the hair in the bright spot has turned white, and the appearance of it is deeper than the skin; it is leprosy. It has broken out in the burning, and the priest shall pronounce him unclean. It is the plague of leprosy.
26. But if the priest examines it, and behold, there is no white hair in the bright spot, and it isn't lower than the skin, but is faded; then the priest shall isolate him seven days.
27. The priest shall examine him on the seventh day. If it has spread in the skin, then the priest shall pronounce him unclean. It is the plague of leprosy.
28. If the bright spot stays in its place, and hasn't spread in the skin, but is faded, it is the swelling from the burn, and the priest shall pronounce him clean; for it is the scar from the burn.
29. "When someone or woman has a plague on the head or on the beard,
30. then the priest shall examine the plague; and behold, if the appearance of it is deeper than the skin, and the hair in it is yellow and thin, then the priest shall pronounce him unclean: it is an itch, it is leprosy of the head or of the beard.
31. If the priest examines the plague of itching, and behold, its appearance isn't deeper than the skin, and there is no black hair in it, then the priest shall isolate him the person infected with itching seven days.
32. On the seventh day the priest shall examine the plague; and behold, if the itch hasn't spread, and there is no yellow hair in it, and the appearance of the itch isn't deeper than the skin,
33. then he shall be shaved, but he shall not shave the itch; and the priest shall shut him up who has the itch seven more days.
34. On the seventh day, the priest shall examine the itch; and behold, if the itch hasn't spread in the skin, and its appearance isn't deeper than the skin, then the priest shall pronounce him clean. He shall wash his clothes, and be clean.
35. But if the itch spreads in the skin after his cleansing,
36. then the priest shall examine him; and behold, if the itch has spread in the skin, the priest shall not look for the yellow hair; he is unclean.
37. But if in his eyes the itch is arrested, and black hair has grown in it; the itch is healed, he is clean. The priest shall pronounce him clean.
38. "When someone or a woman has bright spots in the skin of the body, even white bright spots;
39. then the priest shall examine them; and behold, if the bright spots on the skin of their body are a dull white, it is a harmless rash, it has broken out in the skin; he is clean.
40. "If someone's hair has fallen from their head, they are bald. He is clean.
41. If his hair has fallen off from the front part of his head, he is forehead bald. He is clean.
42. But if there is in the bald head, or the bald forehead, a reddish-white plague; it is leprosy breaking out in his bald head, or his bald forehead.
43. Then the priest shall examine him; and, behold, if the rising of the plague is reddish-white in his bald head, or in his bald forehead, like the appearance of leprosy in the skin of the flesh,
44. he is a leprous man. He is unclean. The priest shall surely pronounce him unclean. His plague is on his head.
45. "The leper in whom the plague is shall wear torn clothes, and the hair of his head shall hang loose. He shall cover his upper lip, and shall cry, 'Unclean! Unclean!'
46. All the days in which the plague is in him he shall be unclean. He is unclean. He shall dwell alone. Outside of the camp shall be his dwelling.
47. "The garment also that the plague of leprosy is in, whether it is a woolen garment, or a linen garment;
48. whether it is in warp, or woof; of linen, or of wool; whether in a skin, or in anything made of skin;
49. if the plague is greenish or reddish in the garment, or in the skin, or in the warp, or in the woof, or in anything made of skin; it is the plague of leprosy, and shall be shown to the priest.
50. The priest shall examine the plague, and isolate the plague seven days.
51. He shall examine the plague on the seventh day. If the plague has spread in the garment, either in the warp, or in the woof, or in the skin, whatever use the skin is used for, the plague is a destructive mildew. It is unclean.
52. He shall burn the garment, whether the warp or the woof, in wool or in linen, or anything of skin, in which the plague is: for it is a destructive mildew. It shall be burned in the fire.
53. "If the priest examines it, and behold, the plague hasn't spread in the garment, either in the warp, or in the woof, or in anything of skin;
54. then the priest shall command that they wereh the thing in which the plague is, and he shall isolate it seven more days.
55. Then the priest shall examine it, after the plague is washed; and behold, if the plague hasn't changed its color, and the plague hasn't spread, it is unclean; you shall burn it in the fire. It is a mildewed spot, whether the bareness is inside or outside.
56. If the priest looks, and behold, the plague has faded after it is washed, then he shall tear it out of the garment, or out of the skin, or out of the warp, or out of the woof:
57. and if it appears again in the garment, either in the warp, or in the woof, or in anything of skin, it is spreading. You shall burn with fire that in which the plague is.
58. The garment, either the warp, or the woof, or whatever thing of skin it is, which you shall wash, if the plague has departed from them, then it shall be washed the second time, and it will be clean."
59. This is the law of the plague of mildew in a garment of wool or linen, either in the warp, or the woof, or in anything of skin, to pronounce it clean, or to pronounce it unclean.

Leviticus 14
1. YHWH spoke to Moshe, saying,
2. "This shall be the law of the leper in the day of his cleansing. He shall be brought to the priest,
3. and the priest shall go forth out of the camp. The priest shall examine him, and behold, if the plague of leprosy is healed in the leper,
4. then the priest shall command them to take for the one who is to be cleansed two living clean birds, and cedar wood, and scarlet, and hyssop.
5. The priest shall command them to kill one of the birds in an earthen vessel over running water.
6. As for the living bird, he shall take it, and the cedar wood, and the scarlet, and the hyssop, and shall dip them and the living bird in the blood of the bird that was killed over the running water.
7. They shall sprinkle on the one who is to be cleansed from the leprosy seven times, and shall pronounce him clean, and shall let the living bird go into the open field.
8. "The one who is to be cleansed shall wash their clothes, and shave off all their hair, and bathe themselves in water; and he shall be clean. After that he shall come into the camp, but shall dwell outside his tent seven days.
9. It shall be on the seventh day, that he shall shave all his hair off his head and his beard and his eyebrows, even all his hair he shall shave off. He shall wash his clothes, and he shall bathe his body in water, then he shall be clean.
10. "On the eighth day he shall take two male lambs without blemish, and one ewe lamb a year old without blemish, and three tenths of an ephah of fine flour for a meal offering, mingled with oil, and one log of oil.
11. The priest who cleanses him shall set the one who is to be cleansed, and those things, before YHWH, at the door of the Tent of Meeting.
12. "The priest shall take one of the male lambs, and offer him for a trespass offering, with the log of oil, and wave them for a wave offering before YHWH.
13. He shall kill the male lamb in the place where they kill the sin offering and the burnt offering, in the place of the sanctuary; for as the sin offering is the priest's, so is the trespass offering. It is most holy.
14. The priest shall take some of the blood of the trespass offering, and the priest shall put it on the tip of the right ear of the one who is to be cleansed, and on the thumb of their right hand, and on the big toe of their right foot.
15. The priest shall take some of the log of oil, and pour it into the palm of his own left hand.
16. The priest shall dip his right finger in the oil that is in his left hand, and shall sprinkle some of the oil with his finger seven times before YHWH.
17. The priest shall put some of the rest of the oil that is in their hand on the tip of the right ear of the one who is to be cleansed, and on the thumb of their right hand, and on the big toe of their right foot, upon the blood of the trespass offering.
18. The rest of the oil that is in the priest's hand they shall put on the head of the one who is to be cleansed, and the priest shall make atonement for them before YHWH.
19. "The priest shall offer the sin offering, and make atonement for the one who is to be cleansed because of their uncleanness: and afterward they shall kill the burnt offering;
20. and the priest shall offer the burnt offering and the meal offering on the altar. The priest shall make atonement for him, and he shall be clean.
21. "If he is poor, and can't afford so much, then he shall take one male lamb for a trespass offering to be waved, to make atonement for him, and one tenth of an ephah of fine flour mingled with oil for a meal offering, and a log of oil;
22. and two turtledoves, or two young pigeons, such as he is able to afford; and the one shall be a sin offering, and the other a burnt offering.
23. "On the eighth day he shall bring them for his cleansing to the priest, to the door of the Tent of Meeting, before YHWH.
24. The priest shall take the lamb of the trespass offering, and the log of oil, and the priest shall wave them for a wave offering before YHWH.
25. He shall kill the lamb of the trespass offering. The priest shall take some of the blood of the trespass offering and put it on the tip of the right ear of the one who is to be cleansed, and on the thumb of their right hand, and on the big toe of their right foot.
26. The priest shall pour some of the oil into the palm of his own left hand;
27. and the priest shall sprinkle with his right finger some of the oil that is in his left hand seven times before YHWH.
28. Then the priest shall put some of the oil that is in their hand on the tip of the right ear of the one who is to be cleansed, and on the thumb of their right hand, and on the big toe of their right foot, on the place of the blood of the trespass offering.
29. The rest of the oil that is in the priest's hand they shall put on the head of the one who is to be cleansed, to make atonement for them before YHWH.
30. He shall offer one of the turtledoves, or of the young pigeons, such as he is able to afford,
31. even such as he is able to afford, the one for a sin offering, and the other for a burnt offering, with the meal offering. The priest shall make atonement for the one who is to be cleansed before YHWH."
32. This is the law for him in whom is the plague of leprosy, who is not able to afford the sacrifice for his cleansing.
33. YHWH spoke to Moshe and to Aharon, saying,
34. "When you have come into the land of Canaan, which I give to you for a possession, and I put a spreading mildew in a house in the land of your possession,
35. then the one who owns the house shall come and tell the priest, saying, 'There seems to me to be some sort of plague in the house.'
36. The priest shall command that they empty the house, before the priest goes in to examine the plague, that all that is in the house not be made unclean: and afterward the priest shall go in to inspect the house.
37. He shall examine the plague; and behold, if the plague is in the walls of the house with hollow streaks, greenish or reddish, and it appears to be deeper than the wall;
38. then the priest shall go out of the house to the door of the house, and shut up the house seven days.
39. The priest shall come again on the seventh day, and look. If the plague has spread in the walls of the house,
40. then the priest shall command that they take out the stones in which is the plague, and cast them into an unclean place outside of the city:
41. and he shall cause the inside of the house to be scraped round about, and they shall pour out the mortar, that they scraped off, outside of the city into an unclean place.
42. They shall take other stones, and put them in the place of those stones; and he shall take other mortar, and shall plaster the house.
43. "If the plague comes again, and breaks out in the house, after he has taken out the stones, and after he has scraped the house, and after it was plastered;
44. then the priest shall come in and look; and behold, if the plague has spread in the house, it is a destructive mildew in the house. It is unclean.
45. He shall break down the house, its stones, and its timber, and all the house's mortar. He shall carry them out of the city into an unclean place.
46. "Moreover the one who goes into the house while it is shut up shall be unclean until the evening.
47. The one who lies down in the house shall wash their clothes; and the one who eats in the house shall wash their clothes.
48. "If the priest shall come in, and examine it, and behold, the plague hasn't spread in the house, after the house was plastered, then the priest shall pronounce the house clean, because the plague is healed.
49. To cleanse the house he shall take two birds, and cedar wood, and scarlet, and hyssop.
50. He shall kill one of the birds in an earthen vessel over running water.
51. He shall take the cedar wood, and the hyssop, and the scarlet, and the living bird, and dip them in the blood of the slain bird, and in the running water, and sprinkle the house seven times.
52. He shall cleanse the house with the blood of the bird, and with the running water, with the living bird, with the cedar wood, with the hyssop, and with the scarlet;
53. but he shall let the living bird go out of the city into the open field. So shall he make atonement for the house; and it shall be clean."
54. This is the law for any plague of leprosy, and for an itch,
55. and for the destructive mildew of a garment, and for a house,
56. and for a rising, and for a scab, and for a bright spot;
57. to teach when it is unclean, and when it is clean. This is the law of leprosy.

Leviticus 15
1. YHWH spoke to Moshe and to Aharon, saying,
2. "Speak to the children of Israel, and tell them, 'When anyone has a discharge from their body, because of their discharge they are unclean.
3. This shall be his uncleanness in his discharge: whether his body runs with his discharge, or his body has stopped from his discharge, it is his uncleanness.
4. "'Every bed whereon the one who has the discharge lies shall be unclean; and everything he sits on shall be unclean.
5. Whoever touches their bed shall wash their clothes, and bathe themselves in water, and be unclean until the evening.
6. The one who sits on anything whereon the one who has the discharge sat shall wash their clothes, and bathe themselves in water, and be unclean until the evening.
7. "'The one who touches the body of the one who has the discharge shall wash their clothes, and bathe themselves in water, and be unclean until the evening.
8. "'If the one who has the discharge spits on the one who is clean, then they shall wash their clothes, and bathe themselves in water, and be unclean until the evening.
9. "'Whatever saddle the one who has the discharge rides on shall be unclean.
10. Whoever touches anything that was under him shall be unclean until the evening. The one who carries those things shall wash their clothes, and bathe themselves in water, and be unclean until the evening.
11. "'Whoever the one who has the discharge touches, without having rinsed their hands in water, they shall wash their clothes, and bathe themselves in water, and be unclean until the evening.
12. "'The earthen vessel, which the one who has the discharge touches, shall be broken; and every vessel of wood shall be rinsed in water.
13. "'When the one who has a discharge is cleansed of their discharge, then they shall count to themselves seven days for their cleansing, and wash their clothes; and he shall bathe his flesh in running water, and shall be clean.
14. "'On the eighth day he shall take two turtledoves, or two young pigeons, and come before YHWH to the door of the Tent of Meeting, and give them to the priest:
15. and the priest shall offer them, the one for a sin offering, and the other for a burnt offering. The priest shall make atonement for him before YHWH for his discharge.
16. "'If anyone has an emission of semen, then they shall bathe all their flesh in water, and be unclean until the evening.
17. Every garment, and every skin, whereon the semen is, shall be washed with water, and be unclean until the evening.
18. If someone lies with a woman and there is an emission of semen, they shall both bathe themselves in water, and be unclean until the evening.
19. "'If a woman has a discharge, and her discharge in her flesh is blood, she shall be in her impurity seven days: and whoever touches her shall be unclean until the evening.
20. "'Everything that she lies on in her impurity shall be unclean. Everything also that she sits on shall be unclean.
21. Whoever touches her bed shall wash their clothes, and bathe themselves in water, and be unclean until the evening.
22. Whoever touches anything that she sits on shall wash their clothes, and bathe themselves in water, and be unclean until the evening.
23. If it is on the bed, or on anything whereon she sits, when he touches it, he shall be unclean until the evening.
24. "'If anyone lies with her, and her monthly flow is on him, they shall be unclean seven days; and every bed whereon he lies shall be unclean.
25. "'If a woman has a discharge of her blood many days not in the time of her period, or if she has a discharge beyond the time of her period; all the days of the discharge of her uncleanness shall be as in the days of her period: she is unclean.
26. Every bed whereon she lies all the days of her discharge shall be to her as the bed of her period: and everything whereon she sits shall be unclean, as the uncleanness of her period.
27. Whoever touches these things shall be unclean, and shall wash their clothes, and bathe themselves in water, and be unclean until the evening.
28. "'But if she is cleansed of her discharge, then she shall count to herself seven days, and after that she shall be clean.
29. On the eighth day she shall take two turtledoves, or two young pigeons, and bring them to the priest, to the door of the Tent of Meeting.
30. The priest shall offer the one for a sin offering, and the other for a burnt offering; and the priest shall make atonement for her before YHWH for the uncleanness of her discharge.
31. "'Thus you shall separate the children of Israel from their uncleanness, so they will not die in their uncleanness, when they defile my tabernacle that is in their midst.'"
32. This is the law of the one who has a discharge, and of the one who has an emission of semen, so that they are unclean thereby;
33. and of her who has her period, and of a person or woman who has a discharge, and of the one who lies with her who is unclean.

Leviticus 16
1. YHWH spoke to Moshe, after the death of the two sons of Aharon, when they drew near before YHWH, and died;
2. and YHWH said to Moshe, "Tell Aharon your brother, not to come at all times into the Most Holy Place within the veil, before the mercy seat which is on the ark; lest he die: for I will appear in the cloud on the mercy seat.
3. "Herewith shall Aharon come into the sanctuary: with a young bull for a sin offering, and a ram for a burnt offering.
4. He shall put on the holy linen coat, and he shall have the linen breeches on his body, and shall put on the linen sash, and he shall be dressed with the linen turban. They are the holy garments. He shall bathe his body in water, and put them on.
5. He shall take from the congregation of the children of Israel two male goats for a sin offering, and one ram for a burnt offering.
6. "Aharon shall offer the bull of the sin offering, which is for himself, and make atonement for himself and for his house.
7. He shall take the two goats, and set them before YHWH at the door of the Tent of Meeting.
8. Aharon shall cast lots for the two goats; one lot for YHWH, and the other lot for the scapegoat.
9. Aharon shall present the goat on which the lot fell for YHWH, and offer him for a sin offering.
10. But the goat, on which the lot fell for the scapegoat, shall be presented alive before YHWH, to make atonement for him, to send him away for the scapegoat into the wilderness.
11. "Aharon shall present the bull of the sin offering, which is for himself, and shall make atonement for himself and for his house, and shall kill the bull of the sin offering which is for himself.
12. He shall take a censer full of coals of fire from off the altar before YHWH, and two handfuls of sweet incense beaten small, and bring it within the veil:
13. and he shall put the incense on the fire before YHWH, that the cloud of the incense may cover the mercy seat that is on the testimony, so that he will not die.
14. He shall take some of the blood of the bull, and sprinkle it with his finger on the mercy seat on the east; and before the mercy seat he shall sprinkle some of the blood with his finger seven times.
15. "Then he shall kill the goat of the sin offering, that is for the people, and bring his blood within the veil, and do with his blood as he did with the blood of the bull, and sprinkle it on the mercy seat, and before the mercy seat:
16. and he shall make atonement for the Holy Place, because of the uncleanness of the children of Israel, and because of their transgressions, even all their sins; and so he shall do for the Tent of Meeting, that dwells with them in the midst of their uncleanness.
17. There shall be no one in the Tent of Meeting when they enters to make atonement in the Holy Place, until they come out, and has made atonement for themselves and for their household, and for all the assembly of Israel.
18. "He shall go out to the altar that is before YHWH and make atonement for it, and shall take some of the bull's blood, and some of the goat's blood, and put it on the horns of the altar round about.
19. He shall sprinkle some of the blood on it with his finger seven times, and cleanse it, and make it holy from the uncleanness of the children of Israel.
20. "When he has made an end of atoning for the Holy Place, the Tent of Meeting, and the altar, he shall present the live goat.
21. Aharon shall lay both his hands on the head of the live goat, and confess over him all the iniquities of the children of Israel, and all their transgressions, even all their sins; and they shall put them on the head of the goat, and shall send him away into the wilderness by the hand of a person who is in readiness.
22. The goat shall carry all their iniquities on himself to a solitary land, and he shall let the goat go in the wilderness.
23. "Aharon shall come into the Tent of Meeting, and shall take off the linen garments, which he put on when he went into the Holy Place, and shall leave them there.
24. Then he shall bathe himself in water in a holy place, and put on his garments, and come out and offer his burnt offering and the burnt offering of the people, and make atonement for himself and for the people.
25. The fat of the sin offering he shall burn on the altar.
26. "The one who lets the goat go for the scapegoat shall wash their clothes, and bathe their flesh in water, and afterward they shall come into the camp.
27. The bull for the sin offering, and the goat for the sin offering, whose blood was brought in to make atonement in the Holy Place, shall be carried forth outside the camp; and they shall burn their skins, their flesh, and their dung with fire.
28. The one who burns them shall wash their clothes, and bathe their flesh in water, and afterward they shall come into the camp.
29. "It shall be a statute to you forever: in the seventh month, on the tenth day of the month, you shall afflict your souls, and shall do no manner of work, the native-born, or the stranger who lives as a foreigner among you:
30. for on this day shall atonement be made for you, to cleanse you; from all your sins you shall be clean before YHWH.
31. It is a Sabbath of solemn rest to you, and you shall afflict your souls; it is a statute forever.
32. The priest, who is anointed and who is consecrated to be priest in his father's place, shall make the atonement, and shall put on the linen garments, even the holy garments.
33. Then he shall make atonement for the Holy Sanctuary; and he shall make atonement for the Tent of Meeting and for the altar; and he shall make atonement for the priests and for all the people of the assembly.
34. "This shall be an everlasting statute for you, to make atonement for the children of Israel once in the year because of all their sins." It was done as YHWH commanded Moshe.

Leviticus 17
1. YHWH spoke to Moshe, saying,
2. "Speak to Aharon, and to his sons, and to all the children of Israel, and say to them: 'This is the thing which YHWH has commanded,
3. Whatever man there is of the house of Israel, who kills an ox, or lamb, or goat, in the camp, or who kills it outside the camp,
4. and hasn't brought it to the door of the Tent of Meeting, to offer it as an offering to YHWH before the tabernacle of YHWH: blood shall be imputed to that man. He has shed blood; and that man shall be cut off from among his people.
5. This is to the end that the children of Israel may bring their sacrifices, which they sacrifice in the open field, that they may bring them to YHWH, to the door of the Tent of Meeting, to the priest, and sacrifice them for sacrifices of peace offerings to YHWH.
6. The priest shall sprinkle the blood on the altar of YHWH at the door of the Tent of Meeting, and burn the fat for a sweet savor to YHWH.
7. They shall no more sacrifice their sacrifices to the goat idols, after which they play the prostitute. This shall be a statute forever to them throughout their generations.'
8. "You shall say to them, 'Anyone there is of the house of Israel, or of the strangers who live as foreigners among them, who offers a burnt offering or sacrifice,
9. and doesn't bring it to the door of the Tent of Meeting, to sacrifice it to YHWH; that man shall be cut off from his people.
10. "'Anyone of the house of Israel, or of the strangers who live as foreigners among them, who eats any kind of blood, I will set my face against that soul who eats blood, and will cut him off from among their people.
11. For the life of the flesh is in the blood; and I have given it to you on the altar to make atonement for your souls: for it is the blood that makes atonement by reason of the life.
12. Therefore I have said to the children of Israel, "No person among you shall eat blood, neither shall any stranger who lives as a foreigner among you eat blood."
13. "'Whatever man there is of the children of Israel, or of the strangers who live as foreigners among them, who takes in hunting any animal or bird that may be eaten; he shall pour out its blood, and cover it with dust.
14. For as to the life of all flesh, its blood is with its life: therefore I said to the children of Israel, "You shall not eat the blood of any kind of flesh; for the life of all flesh is its blood. Whoever eats it shall be cut off."
15. "'Every person that eats what dies of itself, or that which is torn by animals, whether they are native-born or a foreigner, they shall wash their clothes, and bathe themselves in water, and be unclean until the evening: then they shall be clean.
16. But if he doesn't wash them, or bathe his flesh, then he shall bear his iniquity.'"

Leviticus 18
1. YHWH said to Moshe,
2. "Speak to the children of Israel, and say to them, 'I am YHWH your God.
3. You shall not do as they do in the land of Mitzrayim, where you lived: and you shall not do as they do in the land of Canaan, where I am bringing you; neither shall you walk in their statutes.
4. You shall do my ordinances, and you shall keep my statutes, and walk in them: I am YHWH your God.
5. You shall therefore keep my statutes and my ordinances; which if someone does, they shall live in them: I am YHWH.
6. "'None of you shall approach anyone who are their close relatives, to uncover their nakedness: I am YHWH.
7. "'You shall not uncover the nakedness of your father, nor the nakedness of your mother: she is your mother. You shall not uncover her nakedness.
8. "'You shall not uncover the nakedness of your father's wife: it is your father's nakedness.
9. "'You shall not uncover the nakedness of your sister, the daughter of your father, or the daughter of your mother, whether born at home, or born abroad.
10. "'You shall not uncover the nakedness of your son's daughter, or of your daughter's daughter, even their nakedness: for theirs is your own nakedness.
11. "'You shall not uncover the nakedness of your father's wife's daughter, conceived by your father, since she is your sister.
12. "'You shall not uncover the nakedness of your father's sister: she is your father's near kinswoman.
13. "'You shall not uncover the nakedness of your mother's sister: for she is your mother's near kinswoman.
14. "'You shall not uncover the nakedness of your father's brother, you shall not approach his wife: she is your aunt.
15. "'You shall not uncover the nakedness of your daughter-in-law: she is your son's wife. You shall not uncover her nakedness.
16. "'You shall not uncover the nakedness of your brother's wife: it is your brother's nakedness.
17. "'You shall not uncover the nakedness of a woman and her daughter. You shall not take her son's daughter, or her daughter's daughter, to uncover her nakedness; they are near kinswomen: it is wickedness.
18. "'You shall not take a wife to her sister, to be a rival, to uncover her nakedness, while her sister is yet alive.
19. "'You shall not approach a woman to uncover her nakedness, as long as she is impure by her uncleanness.
20. "'You shall not lie carnally with your neighbor's wife, and defile yourself with her.
21. "'You shall not give any of your children to sacrifice to Molech; neither shall you profane the name of your God: I am YHWH.
22. "'You shall not lie with a person, as with a woman. That is detestable.
23. "'You shall not lie with any animal to defile yourself with it; neither shall any woman give herself to an animal, to lie down with it: it is a perversion.
24. "'Don't defile yourselves in any of these things: for in all these the nations which I am casting out before you were defiled.
25. The land was defiled: therefore I punished its iniquity, and the land vomited out her inhabitants.
26. You therefore shall keep my statutes and my ordinances, and shall not do any of these abominations; neither the native-born, nor the stranger who lives as a foreigner among you;
27. (for all these abominations have the men of the land done, that were before you, and the land became defiled);
28. that the land not vomit you out also, when you defile it, as it vomited out the nation that was before you.
29. "'For whoever shall do any of these abominations, even the souls that do them shall be cut off from among their people.
30. Therefore you shall keep my charge, that you do not practice any of these abominable customs, which were practiced before you, and that you do not defile yourselves with them: I am YHWH your God.'"

Leviticus 19
1. YHWH spoke to Moshe, saying,
2. "Speak to all the congregation of the children of Israel, and tell them, 'You shall be holy; for I YHWH your God am holy.
3. "'Each one of you shall respect his mother and his father. You shall keep my Sabbaths. I am YHWH your God.
4. "'Don't turn to idols, nor make molten gods for yourselves. I am YHWH your God.
5. "'When you offer a sacrifice of peace offerings to YHWH, you shall offer it so that you may be accepted.
6. It shall be eaten the same day you offer it, and on the next day: and if anything remains until the third day, it shall be burned with fire.
7. If it is eaten at all on the third day, it is an abomination. It will not be accepted;
8. but everyone who eats it shall bear their iniquity, because they have profaned the holy thing of YHWH, and that soul shall be cut off from their people.
9. "'When you reap the harvest of your land, you shall not wholly reap the corners of your field, neither shall you gather the gleanings of your harvest.
10. You shall not glean your vineyard, neither shall you gather the fallen grapes of your vineyard; you shall leave them for the poor and for the foreigner. I am YHWH your God.
11. "'You shall not steal; neither shall you deal falsely, nor lie to one another.
12. "'You shall not swear by my name falsely, and profane the name of your God. I am YHWH.
13. "'You shall not oppress your neighbor, nor rob him. The wages of a hired servant shall not remain with you all night until the morning.
14. "'You shall not curse the deaf, nor put a stumbling block before the blind; but you shall revere your God. I am YHWH.
15. "'You shall do no injustice in judgment: you shall not be partial to the poor, nor show favoritism to the great; but in righteousness shall you judge your neighbor.
16. "'You shall not go up and down as a slanderer among your people; neither shall you stand against the life of your neighbor. I am YHWH.
17. "'You shall not hate your brother in your heart. You shall surely rebuke your neighbor, and not bear sin because of him.
18. "'You shall not take vengeance, nor bear any grudge against the children of your people; but you shall love your neighbor as yourself. I am YHWH.
19. "'You shall keep my statutes. "'You shall not crossbreed different kinds of animals. "'you shall not sow your field with two kinds of seed; "'neither shall there come upon on you a garment made of two kinds of material.
20. "'If someone lies carnally with a woman who is a slave girl, pledged to be married to another man, and not ransomed, or given her freedom; they shall be punished. They shall not be put to death, because she was not free.
21. He shall bring his trespass offering to YHWH, to the door of the Tent of Meeting, even a ram for a trespass offering.
22. The priest shall make atonement for him with the ram of the trespass offering before YHWH for his sin which he has committed: and the sin which he has committed shall be forgiven him.
23. "'When you come into the land, and have planted all kinds of trees for food, then you shall count their fruit as forbidden. Three years shall they be forbidden to you. It shall not be eaten.
24. But in the fourth year all its fruit shall be holy, for giving praise to YHWH.
25. In the fifth year you shall eat its fruit, that it may yield its increase to you. I am YHWH your God.
26. "'You shall not eat any meat with the blood still in it; neither shall you use enchantments, nor practice sorcery.
27. "'You shall not cut the hair on the sides of your heads, neither shall you clip off the edge of your beard.
28. "'You shall not make any cuttings in your flesh for the dead, nor tattoo any marks on you. I am YHWH.
29. "'Don't profane your daughter, to make her a prostitute; lest the land fall to prostitution, and the land become full of wickedness.
30. "'You shall keep my Sabbaths, and reverence my sanctuary; I am YHWH.
31. "'Don't turn to those who are mediums, nor to the wizards. Don't seek them out, to be defiled by them. I am YHWH your God.
32. "'You shall rise up before the gray head, and honor the face of an old man, and you shall revere your God. I am YHWH.
33. "'If a stranger lives as a foreigner with you in your land, you shall not do him wrong.
34. The stranger who lives as a foreigner with you shall be to you as the native-born among you, and you shall love him as yourself; for you lived as foreigners in the land of Mitzrayim. I am YHWH your God.
35. "'You shall do no unrighteousness in judgment, in measures of length, of weight, or of quantity.
36. Just balances, just weights, a just ephah, and a just hin, shall you have. I am YHWH your God, who brought you out of the land of Mitzrayim.
37. You shall observe all my statutes, and all my ordinances, and do them. I am YHWH.'"

Leviticus 20
1. YHWH spoke to Moshe, saying,
2. "Moreover, you shall tell the children of Israel, 'Anyone of the children of Israel, or of the strangers who live as foreigners in Israel, who gives any of their seed to Molech; he shall surely be put to death. The people of the land shall stone him with stones.
3. I also will set my face against that person, and will cut him off from among his people because he has given of his seed to Molech, to defile my sanctuary, and to profane my holy name.
4. If the people of the land all hide their eyes from that person, when he gives of his seed to Molech, and don't put him to death;
5. then I will set my face against that man, and against his family, and will cut him off, and all who play the prostitute after him, to play the prostitute with Molech, from among their people.
6. "'The person that turns to those who are mediums, and to the wizards, to play the prostitute after them, I will even set my face against that person, and will cut him off from among their people.
7. "'Sanctify yourselves therefore, and be holy; for I am YHWH your God.
8. You shall keep my statutes, and do them. I am YHWH who sanctifies you.
9. "'For everyone who curses their father or their mother shall surely be put to death: they have cursed their father or their mother; their blood shall be upon them.
10. "'The one who commits adultery with another person's wife, even the one who commits adultery with their neighbor's wife, the adulterer and the adulteress shall surely be put to death.
11. The one who lies with their father's wife has uncovered their father's nakedness: both of them shall surely be put to death; their blood shall be upon them.
12. "'If someone lies with their daughter-in-law, both of them shall surely be put to death: they have committed a perversion; their blood shall be upon them.
13. "'If someone lies with a male, as with a woman, both of them have committed an abomination: they shall surely be put to death; their blood shall be upon them.
14. "'If someone takes a wife and her mother, it is wickedness: they shall be burned with fire, both they and they; that there may be no wickedness among you.
15. "'If someone lies with an animal, they shall surely be put to death; and you shall kill the animal.
16. "'If a woman approaches any animal, and lies down with it, you shall kill the woman, and the animal: they shall surely be put to death; their blood shall be upon them.
17. "'If someone takes their sister, their father's daughter, or their mother's daughter, and sees her nakedness, and she sees their nakedness; it is a shameful thing; and they shall be cut off in the sight of the children of their people: they have uncovered their sister's nakedness; they shall bear their iniquity.
18. "'If someone lies with a woman having her monthly period, and uncovers her nakedness; he has made naked her fountain, and she has uncovered the fountain of her blood: and both of them shall be cut off from among their people.
19. "'You shall not uncover the nakedness of your mother's sister, nor of your father's sister; for he has made naked his close relative: they shall bear their iniquity.
20. If someone lies with their uncle's wife, they have uncovered their uncle's nakedness: they shall bear their sin; they shall die childless.
21. "'If someone takes their brother's wife, it is an impurity: they have uncovered their brother's nakedness; they shall be childless.
22. "'You shall therefore keep all my statutes, and all my ordinances, and do them; that the land, where I am bringing you to dwell, may not vomit you out.
23. You shall not walk in the customs of the nation, which I am casting out before you: for they did all these things, and therefore I abhorred them.
24. But I have said to you, "You shall inherit their land, and I will give it to you to possess it, a land flowing with milk and honey." I am YHWH your God, who has separated you from the peoples.
25. "'You shall therefore make a distinction between the clean animal and the unclean, and between the unclean fowl and the clean: and you shall not make yourselves abominable by animal, or by bird, or by anything with which the ground teems, which I have separated from you as unclean for you.
26. You shall be holy to me: for I, YHWH, am holy, and have set you apart from the peoples, that you should be mine.
27. "'A person or a woman that is a medium, or is a wizard, shall surely be put to death: they shall stone them with stones; their blood shall be upon them.'"

Leviticus 21
1. YHWH said to Moshe, "Speak to the priests, the sons of Aharon, and say to them, 'A priest shall not defile himself for the dead among his people;
2. except for his relatives that are near to him: for his mother, for his father, for his son, for his daughter, for his brother,
3. and for his virgin sister who is near to him, who has had no husband; for her he may defile himself.
4. He shall not defile himself, being a chief man among his people, to profane himself.
5. "'They shall not shave their heads, neither shall they shave off the corners of their beards, nor make any cuttings in their flesh.
6. They shall be holy to their God, and not profane the name of their God; for they offer the offerings of YHWH made by fire, the bread of their God; therefore they shall be holy.
7. "'They shall not marry a woman who is a prostitute, or profane; neither shall they marry a woman divorced from her husband: for he is holy to his God.
8. You shall sanctify him therefore; for he offers the bread of your God: he shall be holy to you: for I YHWH, who sanctify you, am holy.
9. "'The daughter of any priest, if she profanes herself by playing the prostitute, she profanes her father: she shall be burned with fire.
10. "'The one who is the high priest among their brothers, upon whose head the anointing oil is poured, and that is consecrated to put on the garments, shall not let the hair of their head hang loose, nor tear their clothes;
11. neither shall he go in to any dead body, nor defile himself for his father, or for his mother;
12. neither shall he go out of the sanctuary, nor profane the sanctuary of his God; for the crown of the anointing oil of his God is upon him. I am YHWH.
13. "'He shall take a wife in her virginity.
14. A widow, or one divorced, or a woman who has been defiled, or a prostitute, these he shall not marry: but a virgin of his own people shall he take as a wife.
15. He shall not profane his seed among his people: for I am YHWH who sanctifies him.'"
16. YHWH spoke to Moshe, saying,
17. "Say to Aharon, 'None of your seed throughout their generations who has a blemish, may approach to offer the bread of his God.
18. For whatever man they are that has a blemish, they shall not draw near: a blind man, or a lame, or the one who has a flat nose, or any deformity,
19. or a person who has an injured foot, or an injured hand,
20. or hunchbacked, or a dwarf, or one who has a defect in their eye, or an itching disease, or scabs, or who has damaged testicles;
21. no one of the seed of Aharon the priest, who has a blemish, shall come near to offer the offerings of YHWH made by fire. Since has a blemish, he shall not come near to offer the bread of his God.
22. He shall eat the bread of his God, both of the most holy, and of the holy.
23. He shall not come near to the veil, nor come near to the altar, because he has a blemish; that he may not profane my sanctuaries, for I am YHWH who sanctifies them.'"
24. So Moshe spoke to Aharon, and to his sons, and to all the children of Israel.

Leviticus 22
1. YHWH spoke to Moshe, saying,
2. "Tell Aharon and his sons to separate themselves from the holy things of the children of Israel, which they make holy to me, and that they not profane my holy name. I am YHWH.
3. "Tell them, 'If anyone of all your seed throughout your generations approaches the holy things, which the children of Israel make holy to YHWH, having their uncleanness on him, that soul shall be cut off from before me. I am YHWH.
4. "'Whoever of the seed of Aharon is a leper or has an issue; he shall not eat of the holy things, until he is clean. Whoever touches anything that is unclean by the dead, or a person whose seed goes from him;
5. or whoever touches any creeping thing, whereby they may be made unclean, or a person of whom they may take uncleanness, whatever uncleanness they have;
6. the person that touches any such shall be unclean until the evening, and shall not eat of the holy things, unless they bathe their body in water.
7. When the sun is down, he shall be clean; and afterward he shall eat of the holy things, because it is his bread.
8. That which dies of itself, or is torn by animals, he shall not eat, defiling himself by it. I am YHWH.
9. "'They shall therefore keep my charge, lest they bear sin for it, and die therein, if they profane it. I am YHWH who sanctifies them.
10. "'No stranger shall eat of the holy thing: a foreigner living with the priests, or a hired servant, shall not eat of the holy thing.
11. But if a priest buys a slave, purchased by his money, he shall eat of it; and such as are born in his house, they shall eat of his bread.
12. If a priest's daughter is married to an outsider, she shall not eat of the heave offering of the holy things.
13. But if a priest's daughter is a widow, or divorced, and has no child, and has returned to her father's house, as in her youth, she may eat of her father's bread: but no stranger shall eat any of it.
14. "'If someone eats something holy unwittingly, then they shall add the fifth part of its value to it, and shall give the holy thing to the priest.
15. The priests shall not profane the holy things of the children of Israel, which they offer to YHWH,
16. and so cause them to bear the iniquity that brings guilt, when they eat their holy things: for I am YHWH who sanctifies them.'"
17. YHWH spoke to Moshe, saying,
18. "Speak to Aharon, and to their sons, and to all the children of Israel, and say to them, 'Whoever is of the house of Israel, or of the foreigners in Israel, who offers their offering, whether it be any of their vows, or any of their freewill offerings, which they offer to YHWH for a burnt offering;
19. that you may be accepted, you shall offer a male without blemish, of the bulls, of the sheep, or of the goats.
20. But whatever has a blemish, that you shall not offer: for it shall not be acceptable for you.
21. Whoever offers a sacrifice of peace offerings to YHWH to accomplish a vow, or for a freewill offering, of the herd or of the flock, it shall be perfect to be accepted; there shall be no blemish therein.
22. Blind, injured, maimed, having a wart, festering, or having a running sore, you shall not offer these to YHWH, nor make an offering by fire of them on the altar to YHWH.
23. Either a bull or a lamb that has any deformity or lacking in his parts, that you may offer for a freewill offering; but for a vow it shall not be accepted.
24. That which has its testicles bruised, crushed, broken, or cut, you shall not offer to YHWH; neither shall you do thus in your land.
25. Neither from the hand of a foreigner shall you offer the bread of your God of any of these; because their corruption is in them. There is a blemish in them. They shall not be accepted for you.'"
26. YHWH spoke to Moshe, saying,
27. "When a bull, or a sheep, or a goat, is born, then it shall remain seven days with its mother; and from the eighth day and thenceforth it shall be accepted for the offering of an offering made by fire to YHWH.
28. Whether it is a cow or ewe, you shall not kill it and its young both in one day.
29. "When you sacrifice a sacrifice of thanksgiving to YHWH, you shall sacrifice it so that you may be accepted.
30. It shall be eaten on the same day; you shall leave none of it until the morning. I am YHWH.
31. "Therefore you shall keep my commandments, and do them. I am YHWH.
32. You shall not profane my holy name, but I will be made holy among the children of Israel. I am YHWH who makes you holy,
33. who brought you out of the land of Mitzrayim, to be your God. I am YHWH."

Leviticus 23
1. YHWH spoke to Moshe, saying,
2. "Speak to the children of Israel, and tell them, 'The set feasts of YHWH, which you shall proclaim to be holy convocations, even these are my set feasts.
3. "'Six days shall work be done: but on the seventh day is a Sabbath of solemn rest, a holy convocation; you shall do no manner of work. It is a Sabbath to YHWH in all your dwellings.
4. "'These are the set feasts of YHWH, even holy convocations, which you shall proclaim in their appointed season.
5. In the first month, on the fourteenth day of the month in the evening, is YHWH's Passover.
6. On the fifteenth day of the same month is the feast of unleavened bread to YHWH. Seven days you shall eat unleavened bread.
7. In the first day you shall have a holy convocation. You shall do no regular work.
8. But you shall offer an offering made by fire to YHWH seven days. In the seventh day is a holy convocation: you shall do no regular work.'"
9. YHWH spoke to Moshe, saying,
10. "Speak to the children of Israel, and tell them, 'When you have come into the land which I give to you, and shall reap its the harvest, then you shall bring the sheaf of the first fruits of your harvest to the priest:
11. and he shall wave the sheaf before YHWH, to be accepted for you. On the next day after the Sabbath the priest shall wave it.
12. On the day when you wave the sheaf, you shall offer a male lamb without blemish a year old for a burnt offering to YHWH.
13. The meal offering with it shall be two tenth parts of an ephah of fine flour mingled with oil, an offering made by fire to YHWH for a sweet savor; and the drink offering with it shall be of wine, the fourth part of a hin.
14. You shall eat neither bread, nor roasted grain, nor fresh grain, until this same day, until you have brought the offering of your God. This is a statute forever throughout your generations in all your dwellings.
15. "'You shall count from the next day after the Sabbath, from the day that you brought the sheaf of the wave offering; seven Sabbaths shall be completed:
16. even to the next day after the seventh Sabbath you shall number fifty days; and you shall offer a new meal offering to YHWH.
17. You shall bring out of your habitations two loaves of bread for a wave offering made of two tenth parts of an ephah of fine flour. They shall be baked with yeast, for first fruits to YHWH.
18. You shall present with the bread seven lambs without blemish a year old, one young bull, and two rams. They shall be a burnt offering to YHWH, with their meal offering, and their drink offerings, even an offering made by fire, of a sweet aroma to YHWH.
19. You shall offer one male goat for a sin offering, and two male lambs a year old for a sacrifice of peace offerings.
20. The priest shall wave them with the bread of the first fruits for a wave offering before YHWH, with the two lambs. They shall be holy to YHWH for the priest.
21. You shall make proclamation on the same day: there shall be a holy convocation to you; you shall do no regular work. This is a statute forever in all your dwellings throughout your generations.
22. "'When you reap the harvest of your land, you shall not wholly reap into the corners of your field, neither shall you gather the gleanings of your harvest: you shall leave them for the poor, and for the foreigner. I am YHWH your God.'"
23. YHWH spoke to Moshe, saying,
24. "Speak to the children of Israel, saying, 'In the seventh month, on the first day of the month, shall be a solemn rest to you, a memorial of blowing of trumpets, a holy convocation.
25. You shall do no regular work; and you shall offer an offering made by fire to YHWH.'"
26. YHWH spoke to Moshe, saying,
27. "However on the tenth day of this seventh month is the day of atonement: it shall be a holy convocation to you, and you shall afflict yourselves; and you shall offer an offering made by fire to YHWH.
28. You shall do no manner of work in that same day; for it is a day of atonement, to make atonement for you before YHWH your God.
29. For whoever it is who shall not deny themselves in that same day; shall be cut off from his people.
30. Whoever it is who does any manner of work in that same day, that person I will destroy from among their people.
31. You shall do no manner of work: it is a statute forever throughout your generations in all your dwellings.
32. It shall be a Sabbath of solemn rest for you, and you shall deny yourselves. In the ninth day of the month at evening, from evening to evening, you shall keep your Sabbath."
33. YHWH spoke to Moshe, saying,
34. "Speak to the children of Israel, and say, 'On the fifteenth day of this seventh month is the feast of tents for seven days to YHWH.
35. On the first day shall be a holy convocation: you shall do no regular work.
36. Seven days you shall offer an offering made by fire to YHWH. On the eighth day shall be a holy convocation to you; and you shall offer an offering made by fire to YHWH. It is a solemn assembly; you shall do no regular work.
37. "'These are the appointed feasts of YHWH, which you shall proclaim to be holy convocations, to offer an offering made by fire to YHWH, a burnt offering, and a meal offering, a sacrifice, and drink offerings, each on its own day;
38. besides the Sabbaths of YHWH, and besides your gifts, and besides all your vows, and besides all your freewill offerings, which you give to YHWH.
39. "'So on the fifteenth day of the seventh month, when you have gathered in the fruits of the land, you shall keep the feast of YHWH seven days: on the first day shall be a solemn rest, and on the eighth day shall be a solemn rest.
40. You shall take on the first day the fruit of goodly trees, branches of palm trees, and boughs of thick trees, and willows of the brook; and you shall rejoice before YHWH your God seven days.
41. You shall keep it a feast to YHWH seven days in the year: it is a statute forever throughout your generations; you shall keep it in the seventh month.
42. You shall dwell in booths seven days. All who are native-born in Israel shall dwell in booths,
43. that your generations may know that I made the children of Israel to dwell in booths, when I brought them out of the land of Mitzrayim. I am YHWH your God.'"
44. Moshe declared to the children of Israel the appointed feasts of YHWH.

Leviticus 24
1. YHWH spoke to Moshe, saying,
2. "Command the children of Israel, that they bring to you pure olive oil beaten for the light, to cause a lamp to burn continually.
3. Outside of the veil of the Testimony, in the Tent of Meeting, shall Aharon keep it in order from evening to morning before YHWH continually: it shall be a statute forever throughout your generations.
4. He shall keep in order the lamps on the pure gold lampstand before YHWH continually.
5. "You shall take fine flour, and bake twelve cakes of it: two tenth parts of an ephah shall be in one cake.
6. You shall set them in two rows, six on a row, on the pure gold table before YHWH.
7. You shall put pure frankincense on each row, that it may be to the bread for a memorial, even an offering made by fire to YHWH.
8. Every Sabbath day he shall set it in order before YHWH continually. It is on the behalf of the children of Israel an everlasting covenant.
9. It shall be for Aharon and his sons; and they shall eat it in a holy place: for it is most holy to him of the offerings of YHWH made by fire by a perpetual statute."
10. The son of an Israelite woman, whose father was an Egyptian, went out among the children of Israel; and the son of the Israelite woman and a person of Israel strove together in the camp.
11. The son of the Israelite woman blasphemed the Name, and cursed; and they brought him to Moshe. His mother's name was Shelomith, the daughter of Dibri, of the tribe of Dan.
12. They put him in custody, until the will of YHWH should be declared to them.
13. YHWH spoke to Moshe, saying,
14. "Bring out of the camp the one who cursed; and let all who heard him lay their hands on his head, and let all the congregation stone him.
15. You shall speak to the children of Israel, saying, 'Whoever curses their God shall bear their sin.
16. The one who blasphemes the name of YHWH, they shall surely be put to death; all the congregation shall certainly stone him: the foreigner as well as the native-born, when he blasphemes the Name, shall be put to death.
17. "'The one who strikes anyone mortally shall surely be put to death.
18. The one who strikes an animal mortally shall make it good, life for life.
19. If anyone injures their neighbor; as he has done, so shall it be done to him:
20. fracture for fracture, eye for eye, tooth for tooth; as they have injured someone, so shall it be done to him.
21. The one who kills an animal shall make it good; and the one who kills a person shall be put to death.
22. You shall have one kind of law, for the foreigner as well as the native-born: for I am YHWH your God.'"
23. Moshe spoke to the children of Israel; and they brought forth the one who had cursed out of the camp, and stoned him with stones. The children of Israel did as YHWH commanded Moshe.

Leviticus 25
1. YHWH said to Moshe in Mount Sinai,
2. "Speak to the children of Israel, and tell them, 'When you come into the land which I give you, then the land shall keep a Sabbath to YHWH.
3. Six years you shall sow your field, and six years you shall prune your vineyard, and gather in its fruits;
4. but in the seventh year there shall be a Sabbath of solemn rest for the land, a Sabbath to YHWH. You shall not sow your field or prune your vineyard.
5. What grows of itself in your harvest you shall not reap, and the grapes of your undressed vine you shall not gather. It shall be a year of solemn rest for the land.
6. The Sabbath of the land shall be for food for you; for yourself, for your servant, for your maid, for your hired servant, and for your stranger, who lives as a foreigner with you.
7. For your livestock also, and for the animals that are in your land, shall all the increase of it be for food.
8. "'You shall count off seven Sabbaths of years, seven times seven years; and there shall be to you the days of seven Sabbaths of years, even forty-nine years.
9. Then you shall sound the loud trumpet on the tenth day of the seventh month. On the Day of Atonement you shall sound the trumpet throughout all your land.
10. You shall make the fiftieth year holy, and proclaim liberty throughout the land to all its inhabitants. It shall be a jubilee to you; and each of you shall return to his own property, and each of you shall return to his family.
11. That fiftieth year shall be a jubilee to you. In it you shall not sow, neither reap that which grows of itself, nor gather from the undressed vines.
12. For it is a jubilee; it shall be holy to you. You shall eat of its increase out of the field.
13. "'In this Year of Jubilee each of you shall return to his property.
14. "'If you sell anything to your neighbor, or buy from your neighbor, you shall not wrong one another.
15. According to the number of years after the Jubilee you shall buy from your neighbor. According to the number of years of the crops he shall sell to you.
16. According to the length of the years you shall increase the price of it, and according to the shortness of the years you shall diminish the price of it; for he is selling the number of the crops to you.
17. You shall not wrong one another; but you shall revere your God: for I am YHWH your God.
18. "'Therefore you shall do my statutes, and keep my ordinances and do them; and you shall dwell in the land in safety.
19. The land shall yield its fruit, and you shall eat your fill, and dwell therein in safety.
20. If you said, "What shall we eat the seventh year? Behold, we shall not sow, nor gather in our increase;"
21. then I will command my blessing on you in the sixth year, and it shall bring forth fruit for the three years.
22. You shall sow the eighth year, and eat of the fruits, the old store; until the ninth year, until its fruits come in, you shall eat the old store.
23. "'The land shall not be sold in perpetuity, for the land is mine; for you are strangers and live as foreigners with me.
24. In all the land of your possession you shall grant a redemption for the land.
25. "'If your brother becomes poor, and sells some of his possessions, then his kinsman who is next to him shall come, and redeem that which his brother has sold.
26. If someone has no one to redeem it, and they becomes prosperous and finds sufficient means to redeem it;
27. then let him reckon the years since the sale of it, and restore the surplus to the person to whom they sold it; and he shall return to his property.
28. But if they aren't able to get it back for themselves, then what they have sold shall remain in the hand of the one who has bought it until the Year of Jubilee: and in the Jubilee it shall be released, and they shall return to their property.
29. "'If someone sells a dwelling house in a walled city, then they may redeem it within a whole year after it has been sold. For a full year he shall have the right of redemption.
30. If it isn't redeemed within the space of a full year, then the house that is in the walled city shall be made sure in perpetuity to the one who bought it, throughout their generations. It shall not be released in the Jubilee.
31. But the houses of the villages which have no wall round about them shall be reckoned with the fields of the country: they may be redeemed, and they shall be released in the Jubilee.
32. "'Nevertheless the cities of the Levites, the houses in the cities of their possession, the Levites may redeem at any time.
33. The Levites may redeem the house that was sold, and the city of his possession, and it shall be released in the Jubilee; for the houses of the cities of the Levites are their possession among the children of Israel.
34. But the field of the suburbs of their cities may not be sold; for it is their perpetual possession.
35. "'If your brother has become poor, and his hand can't support him among you; then you shall uphold him. As a stranger and a sojourner he shall live with you.
36. Take no interest from him or profit, but revere your God; that your brother may live among you.
37. You shall not lend him your money at interest, nor give him your food for profit.
38. I am YHWH your God, who brought you forth out of the land of Mitzrayim, to give you the land of Canaan, and to be your God.
39. "'If your brother has grown poor among you, and sells himself to you; you shall not make him to serve as a slave.
40. As a hired servant, and as a sojourner, he shall be with you; he shall serve with you until the Year of Jubilee:
41. then he shall go out from you, he and his children with him, and shall return to his own family, and to the possession of his fathers.
42. For they are my servants, whom I brought forth out of the land of Mitzrayim. They shall not be sold as slaves.
43. You shall not rule over him with harshness, but shall revere your God.
44. "'As for your male and your female slaves, whom you may have; of the nations that are around you, from them you may buy male and female slaves.
45. Moreover of the children of the strangers who sojourn among you, of them you may buy, and of their families who are with you, which they have conceived in your land; and they will be your property.
46. You may make them an inheritance for your children after you, to hold for a possession; of them may you take your slaves forever: but over your brothers the children of Israel you shall not rule, one over another, with harshness.
47. "'If a stranger or sojourner with you becomes rich, and your brother beside him has grown poor, and sells himself to the stranger or foreigner living among you, or to a member of the stranger's family;
48. after he is sold he may be redeemed. One of his brothers may redeem him;
49. or his uncle, or his uncle's son, may redeem him, or any who is a close relative to him of his family may redeem him; or if he has grown rich, he may redeem himself.
50. They shall reckon with the one who bought him from the year that they sold themselves to him to the Year of Jubilee: and the price of their sale shall be according to the number of years; according to the time of a hired servant shall he be with him.
51. If there are yet many years, according to them he shall give back the price of his redemption out of the money that he was bought for.
52. If there remain but a few years to the year of jubilee, then he shall reckon with him; according to his years of service he shall give back the price of his redemption.
53. As a servant hired year by year shall he be with him: he shall not rule with harshness over him in your sight.
54. If he isn't redeemed by these means, then he shall be released in the Year of Jubilee, he, and his children with him.
55. For to me the children of Israel are servants; they are my servants whom I brought forth out of the land of Mitzrayim. I am YHWH your God.

Leviticus 26
1. "'You shall make for yourselves no idols, neither shall you raise up an engraved image or a pillar, neither shall you place any figured stone in your land, to bow down to it: for I am YHWH your God.
2. "'You shall keep my Sabbaths, and have reverence for my sanctuary. I am YHWH.
3. "'If you walk in my statutes, and keep my commandments, and do them;
4. then I will give you your rains in their season, and the land shall yield its increase, and the trees of the field shall yield their fruit.
5. Your threshing shall reach to the vintage, and the vintage shall reach to the sowing time; and you shall eat your bread to the full, and dwell in your land safely.
6. "'I will give peace in the land, and you shall lie down, and no one will make you afraid; and I will remove brokenness animals out of the land, neither shall the sword go through your land.
7. You shall chase your enemies, and they shall fall before you by the sword.
8. Five of you shall chase a hundred, and a hundred of you shall chase ten thousand; and your enemies shall fall before you by the sword.
9. "'I will have respect for you, and make you fruitful, and multiply you, and will establish my covenant with you.
10. You shall eat old store long kept, and you shall move out the old because of the new.
11. I will set my tent among you: and my soul won't abhor you.
12. I will walk among you, and will be your God, and you will be my people.
13. I am YHWH your God, who brought you forth out of the land of Mitzrayim, that you should not be their slaves; and I have broken the bars of your yoke, and made you go upright.
14. "'But if you will not listen to me, and will not do all these commandments;
15. and if you shall reject my statutes, and if your soul abhors my ordinances, so that you will not do all my commandments, but break my covenant;
16. I also will do this to you: I will appoint terror over you, even consumption and fever, that shall consume the eyes, and make the soul to pine away; and you will sow your seed in vain, for your enemies will eat it.
17. I will set my face against you, and you will be struck before your enemies. Those who hate you will rule over you; and you will flee when no one pursues you.
18. "'If you in spite of these things will not listen to me, then I will chastise you seven times more for your sins.
19. I will break the pride of your power, and I will make your heavens like iron, and your soil like brass;
20. and your strength will be spent in vain; for your land won't yield its increase, neither will the trees of the land yield their fruit.
21. "'If you walk contrary to me, and won't listen to me, then I will bring seven times more plagues on you according to your sins.
22. I will send the wild animals among you, which will rob you of your children, destroy your livestock, and make you few in number; and your roads will become desolate.
23. "'If by these things you won't be reformed to me, but will walk contrary to me;
24. then I will also walk contrary to you; and I will strike you, even I, seven times for your sins.
25. I will bring a sword upon you, that will execute the vengeance of the covenant; and you will be gathered together within your cities: and I will send the pestilence among you; and you will be delivered into the hand of the enemy.
26. When I break your staff of bread, ten women shall bake your bread in one oven, and they shall deliver your bread again by weight: and you shall eat, and not be satisfied.
27. "'If you in spite of this won't listen to me, but walk contrary to me;
28. then I will walk contrary to you in wrath; and I also will chastise you seven times for your sins.
29. You will eat the flesh of your sons, and you will eat the flesh of your daughters.
30. I will destroy your high places, and cut down your incense altars, and cast your dead bodies upon the bodies of your idols; and my soul will abhor you.
31. I will lay your cities waste, and will bring your sanctuaries to desolation, and I will not take delight in the sweet fragrance of your offerings.
32. I will bring the land into desolation; and your enemies that dwell therein will be astonished at it.
33. I will scatter you among the nations, and I will draw out the sword after you: and your land will be a desolation, and your cities shall be a waste.
34. Then the land will enjoy its sabbaths as long as it lies desolate and you are in your enemies' land. Even then the land will rest and enjoy its sabbaths.
35. As long as it lies desolate it shall have rest, even the rest which it didn't have in your sabbaths, when you lived on it.
36. "'As for those of you who are left, I will send a faintness into their hearts in the lands of their enemies: and the sound of a driven leaf will put them to flight; and they shall flee, as one flees from the sword; and they will fall when no one pursues.
37. They will stumble over one another, as it were before the sword, when no one pursues: and you will have no power to stand before your enemies.
38. You will perish among the nations, and the land of your enemies will eat you up.
39. Those of you who are left will pine away in their iniquity in your enemies' lands; and also in the iniquities of their fathers shall they pine away with them.
40. "'If they confess their iniquity, and the iniquity of their fathers, in their trespass which they trespassed against me, and also that, because they walked contrary to me,
41. I also walked contrary to them, and brought them into the land of their enemies: if then their uncircumcised heart is humbled, and they then accept the punishment of their iniquity;
42. then I will remember my covenant with Ya'akov; and also my covenant with Yitzhak, and also my covenant with Avraham; and I will remember the land.
43. The land also will be left by them, and will enjoy its sabbaths while it lies desolate without them: and they will accept the punishment of their iniquity; because, even because they rejected my ordinances, and their soul abhorred my statutes.
44. Yet for all that, when they are in the land of their enemies, I will not reject them, neither will I abhor them, to destroy them utterly, and to break my covenant with them; for I am YHWH their God;
45. but I will for their sake remember the covenant of their ancestors, whom I brought forth out of the land of Mitzrayim in the sight of the nations, that I might be their God. I am YHWH.'"
46. These are the statutes, ordinances and laws, which YHWH made between him and the children of Israel in Mount Sinai by Moshe.

Leviticus 27
1. YHWH spoke to Moshe, saying,
2. "Speak to the children of Israel, and say to them, 'When someone makes a vow, the persons shall be for YHWH by your valuation.
3. Your valuation shall be of a male from twenty years old even to sixty years old, even your valuation shall be fifty shekels of silver, after the shekel of the sanctuary.
4. If it is a female, then your valuation shall be thirty shekels.
5. If the person is from five years old even to twenty years old, then your valuation shall be for a male twenty shekels, and for a female ten shekels.
6. If the person is from a month old even to five years old, then your valuation shall be for a male five shekels of silver, and for a female your valuation shall be three shekels of silver.
7. If the person is from sixty years old and upward; if it is a male, then your valuation shall be fifteen shekels, and for a female ten shekels.
8. But if he is poorer than your valuation, then he shall be set before the priest, and the priest shall value him; according to the ability of the one who vowed shall the priest value him.
9. "'If it is an animal, of which men offer an offering to YHWH, all that anyone gives of such to YHWH becomes holy.
10. He shall not alter it, nor change it, a good for a bad, or a bad for a good: and if he shall at all change animal for animal, then both it and that for which it is changed shall be holy.
11. If it is any unclean animal, of which they do not offer as an offering to YHWH, then he shall set the animal before the priest;
12. and the priest shall value it, whether it is good or bad. As you the priest values it, so shall it be.
13. But if he will indeed redeem it, then he shall add the fifth part of it to its valuation.
14. "'When someone dedicates their house to be holy to YHWH, then the priest shall evaluate it, whether it is good or bad: as the priest shall evaluate it, so shall it stand.
15. If the one who dedicates it will redeem their house, then they shall add the fifth part of the money of your valuation to it, and it shall be their.
16. "'If someone dedicates to YHWH part of the field of their possession, then your valuation shall be according to the seed for it: the sowing of a homer of barley shall be valued at fifty shekels of silver.
17. If he dedicates his field from the Year of Jubilee, according to your valuation it shall stand.
18. But if he dedicates his field after the Jubilee, then the priest shall reckon to him the money according to the years that remain to the Year of Jubilee; and an abatement shall be made from your valuation.
19. If the one who dedicated the field will indeed redeem it, then they shall add the fifth part of the money of your valuation to it, and it shall remain their.
20. If he will not redeem the field, or if he has sold the field to another man, it shall not be redeemed any more;
21. but the field, when it goes out in the Jubilee, shall be holy to YHWH, as a field devoted; it shall be owned by the priests.
22. "'If he dedicates to YHWH a field which he has bought, which is not of the field of his possession,
23. then the priest shall reckon to him the worth of your valuation up to the Year of Jubilee; and he shall give your valuation on that day, as a holy thing to YHWH.
24. In the Year of Jubilee the field shall return to him from whom it was bought, even to him to whom the possession of the land belongs.
25. All your valuations shall be according to the shekel of the sanctuary: twenty gerahs to the shekel.
26. "'Only the firstborn among animals, which is made a firstborn to YHWH, no one may dedicate it; whether an ox or sheep, it is YHWH's.
27. If it is an unclean animal, then he shall buy it back according to your valuation, and shall add to it the fifth part of it: or if it isn't redeemed, then it shall be sold according to your valuation.
28. "'Notwithstanding, no devoted thing, that a person shall devote to YHWH of all that they have, whether of man or animal, or of the field of their possession, shall be sold or redeemed: every devoted thing is most holy to YHWH.
29. "'No one devoted, who shall be devoted from among men, shall be ransomed; he shall surely be put to death.
30. "'All the tithe of the land, whether of the seed of the land or of the fruit of the trees, is YHWH's. It is holy to YHWH.
31. If someone redeems anything of their tithe, they shall add a fifth part to it.
32. All the tithe of the herds or the flocks, whatever passes under the rod, the tenth shall be holy to YHWH.
33. He shall not search whether it is good or bad, neither shall he change it: and if he changes it at all, then both it and that for which it is changed shall be holy. It shall not be redeemed.'"
34. These are the commandments which YHWH commanded Moshe for the children of Israel on Mount Sinai.

Numbers 1
1. YHWH spoke to Moshe in the wilderness of Sinai, in the Tent of Meeting, on the first day of the second month, in the second year after they had come out of the land of Mitzrayim, saying,
2. "Take a census of all the congregation of the children of Israel, by their families, by their fathers' houses, according to the number of the names, every male, one by one;
3. from twenty years old and upward, all who are able to go out to war in Israel. You and Aharon shall number them by their divisions.
4. With you there shall be a person of every tribe; everyone head of their fathers' house.
5. These are the names of the people who shall stand with you: Of Reuven: Elizur the son of Shedeur.
6. Of Shim'on: Shelumiel the son of Zurishaddai.
7. Of Yehudah: Nahshon the son of Amminadab.
8. Of Yissakhar: Nethanel the son of Zuar.
9. Of Zevulun: Eliab the son of Helon.
10. Of the children of Yosef: Of Efrayim: Elishama the son of Ammihud. Of Menashe: Gamliel the son of Pedahzur.
11. Of Binyamin: Abidan the son of Gideoni.
12. Of Dan: Ahiezer the son of Ammishaddai.
13. Of Asher: Pagiel the son of Ochran.
14. Of Gad: Eliasaph the son of Deuel.
15. Of Naphtali: Ahira the son of Enan."
16. These are those who were called of the congregation, the princes of the tribes of their fathers; they were the heads of the thousands of Israel.
17. Moshe and Aharon took these people who are mentioned by name.
18. They assembled all the congregation together on the first day of the second month; and they declared their ancestry by their families, by their fathers' houses, according to the number of the names, from twenty years old and upward, one by one.
19. As YHWH commanded Moshe, so he numbered them in the wilderness of Sinai.
20. The children of Reuven, Israel's firstborn, their generations, by their families, by their fathers' houses, according to the number of the names, one by one, every male from twenty years old and upward, all who were able to go out to war;
21. those who were numbered of them, of the tribe of Reuven, were forty-six thousand five hundred.
22. Of the children of Shim'on, their generations, by their families, by their fathers' houses, those who were numbered of it, according to the number of the names, one by one, every male from twenty years old and upward, all who were able to go out to war;
23. those who were numbered of them, of the tribe of Shim'on, were fifty-nine thousand three hundred.
24. Of the children of Gad, their generations, by their families, by their fathers' houses, according to the number of the names, from twenty years old and upward, all who were able to go out to war;
25. those who were numbered of them, of the tribe of Gad, were forty-five thousand six hundred fifty.
26. Of the children of Yehudah, their generations, by their families, by their fathers' houses, according to the number of the names, from twenty years old and upward, all who were able to go out to war;
27. those who were numbered of them, of the tribe of Yehudah, were sixty-four thousand six hundred.
28. Of the children of Yissakhar, their generations, by their families, by their fathers' houses, according to the number of the names, from twenty years old and upward, all who were able to go out to war;
29. those who were numbered of them, of the tribe of Yissakhar, were fifty-four thousand four hundred.
30. Of the children of Zevulun, their generations, by their families, by their fathers' houses, according to the number of the names, from twenty years old and upward, all who were able to go out to war;
31. those who were numbered of them, of the tribe of Zevulun, were fifty-seven thousand four hundred.
32. Of the children of Yosef, of the children of Efrayim, their generations, by their families, by their fathers' houses, according to the number of the names, from twenty years old and upward, all who were able to go out to war;
33. those who were numbered of them, of the tribe of Efrayim, were forty thousand five hundred.
34. Of the children of Menashe, their generations, by their families, by their fathers' houses, according to the number of the names, from twenty years old and upward, all who were able to go out to war;
35. those who were numbered of them, of the tribe of Menashe, were thirty-two thousand two hundred.
36. Of the children of Binyamin, their generations, by their families, by their fathers' houses, according to the number of the names, from twenty years old and upward, all who were able to go out to war;
37. those who were numbered of them, of the tribe of Binyamin, were thirty-five thousand four hundred.
38. Of the children of Dan, their generations, by their families, by their fathers' houses, according to the number of the names, from twenty years old and upward, all who were able to go forth to war;
39. those who were numbered of them, of the tribe of Dan, were sixty-two thousand seven hundred.
40. Of the children of Asher, their generations, by their families, by their fathers' houses, according to the number of the names, from twenty years old and upward, all who were able to go forth to war;
41. those who were numbered of them, of the tribe of Asher, were forty-one thousand five hundred.
42. Of the children of Naphtali, their generations, by their families, by their fathers' houses, according to the number of the names, from twenty years old and upward, all who were able to go forth to war;
43. those who were numbered of them, of the tribe of Naphtali, were fifty-three thousand four hundred.
44. These are those who were numbered, whom Moshe and Aharon numbered, and the princes of Israel, being twelve men: they were each one for his fathers' house.
45. So all those who were numbered of the children of Israel by their fathers' houses, from twenty years old and upward, all who were able to go out to war in Israel;
46. even all those who were numbered were six hundred three thousand five hundred fifty.
47. But the Levites after the tribe of their fathers were not numbered among them.
48. For YHWH spoke to Moshe, saying,
49. "Only the tribe of Levi you shall not number, neither shall you take a census of them among the children of Israel;
50. but appoint the Levites over the Tabernacle of the Testimony, and over all its furnishings, and over all that belongs to it. They shall carry the tabernacle, and all its furnishings; and they shall take care of it, and shall encamp around it.
51. When the tabernacle is to move, the Levites shall take it down; and when the tabernacle is to be set up, the Levites shall set it up. The stranger who comes near shall be put to death.
52. The children of Israel shall pitch their tents, everyone by their own camp, and everyone by their own standard, according to their divisions.
53. But the Levites shall encamp around the Tabernacle of the Testimony, that there may be no wrath on the congregation of the children of Israel: and the Levites shall be responsible for the Tabernacle of the Testimony."
54. Thus the children of Israel did. According to all that YHWH commanded Moshe, so they did.

Numbers 2
1. YHWH spoke to Moshe and to Aharon, saying,
2. "The children of Israel shall encamp everyone by their own standard, with the banners of their fathers' houses: at a distance from the tent of meeting shall they encamp around it."
3. Those who encamp on the east side toward the sunrise shall be of the standard of the camp of Yehudah, according to their divisions: and the prince of the children of Yehudah shall be Nahshon the son of Amminadab.
4. His division, and those who were numbered of them, were seventy-four thousand six hundred.
5. Those who encamp next to him shall be the tribe of Yissakhar: and the prince of the children of Yissakhar shall be Nethanel the son of Zuar.
6. His division, and those who were numbered of it, were fifty-four thousand four hundred.
7. The tribe of Zevulun: and the prince of the children of Zevulun shall be Eliab the son of Helon.
8. His division, and those who were numbered of it, were fifty-seven thousand four hundred.
9. All who were numbered of the camp of Yehudah were one hundred eighty-six thousand four hundred, according to their divisions. They shall set out first.
10. "On the south side shall be the standard of the camp of Reuven according to their divisions. The prince of the children of Reuven shall be Elizur the son of Shedeur.
11. His division, and those who were numbered of it, were forty-six thousand five hundred.
12. "Those who encamp next to him shall be the tribe of Shim'on. The prince of the children of Shim'on shall be Shelumiel the son of Zurishaddai.
13. His division, and those who were numbered of them, were fifty-nine thousand three hundred.
14. "The tribe of Gad: and the prince of the children of Gad shall be Eliasaph the son of Reuel.
15. His division, and those who were numbered of them, were forty-five thousand six hundred fifty.
16. "All who were numbered of the camp of Reuven were one hundred fifty-one thousand four hundred fifty, according to their armies. They shall set out second.
17. "Then the tent of meeting shall set out, with the camp of the Levites in the midst of the camps. As they encamp, so shall they set out, everyone in their place, by their standards.
18. "On the west side shall be the standard of the camp of Efrayim according to their divisions: and the prince of the children of Efrayim shall be Elishama the son of Ammihud.
19. His division, and those who were numbered of them, were forty thousand five hundred.
20. "Next to him shall be the tribe of Menashe: and the prince of the children of Menashe shall be Gamliel the son of Pedahzur.
21. His division, and those who were numbered of them, were thirty-two thousand two hundred.
22. "The tribe of Binyamin: and the prince of the children of Binyamin shall be Abidan the son of Gideoni.
23. His army, and those who were numbered of them, were thirty-five thousand four hundred.
24. "All who were numbered of the camp of Efrayim were one hundred eight thousand one hundred, according to their divisions. They shall set out third.
25. "On the north side shall be the standard of the camp of Dan according to their divisions: and the prince of the children of Dan shall be Ahiezer the son of Ammishaddai.
26. His division, and those who were numbered of them, were sixty-two thousand seven hundred.
27. "Those who encamp next to him shall be the tribe of Asher: and the prince of the children of Asher shall be Pagiel the son of Ochran.
28. His division, and those who were numbered of them, were forty-one thousand and five hundred.
29. "The tribe of Naphtali: and the prince of the children of Naphtali shall be Ahira the son of Enan.
30. His division, and those who were numbered of them, were fifty-three thousand four hundred.
31. "All who were numbered of the camp of Dan were one hundred fifty-seven thousand six hundred. They shall set out last by their standards."
32. These are those who were numbered of the children of Israel by their fathers' houses. All who were numbered of the camps according to their armies were six hundred three thousand five hundred fifty.
33. But the Levites were not numbered among the children of Israel; as YHWH commanded Moshe.
34. Thus the children of Israel did. According to all that YHWH commanded Moshe, so they encamped by their standards, and so they set out, everyone by their families, according to their fathers' houses.

Numbers 3
1. Now this is the history of the generations of Aharon and Moshe in the day that YHWH spoke with Moshe in Mount Sinai.
2. These are the names of the sons of Aharon: Nadab the firstborn, and Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar.
3. These are the names of the sons of Aharon, the priests who were anointed, whom he consecrated to minister in the priest's office.
4. Nadab and Abihu died before YHWH, when they offered strange fire before YHWH, in the wilderness of Sinai, and they had no children. Eleazar and Ithamar ministered in the priest's office in the presence of Aharon their father.
5. YHWH spoke to Moshe, saying,
6. "Bring the tribe of Levi near, and set them before Aharon the priest, that they may minister to him.
7. They shall keep his charge, and the charge of the whole congregation before the Tent of Meeting, to do the service of the tabernacle.
8. They shall keep all the furnishings of the Tent of Meeting, and the obligations of the children of Israel, to do the service of the tabernacle.
9. You shall give the Levites to Aharon and to his sons. They are wholly given to him on the behalf of the children of Israel.
10. You shall appoint Aharon and his sons, and they shall keep their priesthood. The stranger who comes near shall be put to death."
11. YHWH spoke to Moshe, saying,
12. "Behold, I have taken the Levites from among the children of Israel instead of all the firstborn who open the womb among the children of Israel; and the Levites shall be mine:
13. for all the firstborn are mine. On the day that I struck down all the firstborn in the land of Mitzrayim I made holy to me all the firstborn in Israel, both man and animal. They shall be mine. I am YHWH."
14. YHWH spoke to Moshe in the wilderness of Sinai, saying,
15. "Number the children of Levi by their fathers' houses, by their families: every male from a month old and upward shall you number."
16. Moshe numbered them according to the word of YHWH, as he was commanded.
17. These were the sons of Levi by their names: Gershon, and Kohath, and Merari.
18. These are the names of the sons of Gershon by their families: Libni and Shimei.
19. The sons of Kohath by their families: Amram, and Izhar, Chevron, and Uzziel.
20. The sons of Merari by their families: Mahli and Mushi. These are the families of the Levites according to their fathers' houses.
21. Of Gershon was the family of the Libnites, and the family of the Shimeites: these are the families of the Gershonites.
22. Those who were numbered of them, according to the number of all the males, from a month old and upward, even those who were numbered of them were seven thousand five hundred.
23. The families of the Gershonites shall encamp behind the tabernacle westward.
24. The prince of the fathers' house of the Gershonites shall be Eliasaph the son of Lael.
25. The charge of the sons of Gershon in the Tent of Meeting shall be the tabernacle, and the tent, its covering, and the screen for the door of the Tent of Meeting,
26. and the hangings of the court, and the screen for the door of the court, which is by the tabernacle, and around the altar, and its cords for all of its service.
27. Of Kohath was the family of the Amramites, and the family of the Izharites, and the family of the Hebronites, and the family of the Uzzielites: these are the families of the Kohathites.
28. According to the number of all the males, from a month old and upward, there were eight thousand six hundred, keeping the charge of the sanctuary.
29. The families of the sons of Kohath shall encamp on the south side of the tabernacle.
30. The prince of the fathers' house of the families of the Kohathites shall be Elizaphan the son of Uzziel.
31. Their charge shall be the ark, the table, the lamp stand, the altars, the vessels of the sanctuary with which they minister, and the screen, and all its service.
32. Eleazar the son of Aharon the priest shall be prince of the princes of the Levites, with the oversight of those who keep the charge of the sanctuary.
33. Of Merari was the family of the Mahlites, and the family of the Mushites. These are the families of Merari.
34. Those who were numbered of them, according to the number of all the males, from a month old and upward, were six thousand two hundred.
35. The prince of the fathers' house of the families of Merari was Zuriel the son of Abihail. They shall encamp on the north side of the tabernacle.
36. The appointed charge of the sons of Merari shall be the tabernacle's boards, its bars, its pillars, its sockets, all its instruments, all its service,
37. the pillars of the court around it, their sockets, their pins, and their cords.
38. Those who encamp before the tabernacle eastward, in front of the Tent of Meeting toward the sunrise, shall be Moshe, and Aharon and his sons, keeping the charge of the sanctuary for the charge of the children of Israel. The stranger who comes near shall be put to death.
39. All who were numbered of the Levites, whom Moshe and Aharon numbered at the commandment of YHWH, by their families, all the males from a month old and upward, were twenty-two thousand.
40. YHWH said to Moshe, "Number all the firstborn males of the children of Israel from a month old and upward, and take the number of their names.
41. You shall take the Levites for me (I am YHWH) instead of all the firstborn among the children of Israel; and the livestock of the Levites instead of all the firstborn among the livestock of the children of Israel."
42. Moshe numbered, as YHWH commanded him, all the firstborn among the children of Israel.
43. All the firstborn males according to the number of names, from a month old and upward, of those who were numbered of them, were twenty-two thousand two hundred seventy-three.
44. YHWH spoke to Moshe, saying,
45. "Take the Levites instead of all the firstborn among the children of Israel, and the livestock of the Levites instead of their livestock; and the Levites shall be mine. I am YHWH.
46. For the redemption of the two hundred seventy-three of the firstborn of the children of Israel, who exceed the number of the Levites,
47. you shall take five shekels apiece for each one; after the shekel of the sanctuary you shall take them (the shekel is twenty gerahs):
48. and you shall give the money, with which the remainder of them is redeemed, to Aharon and to his sons."
49. Moshe took the redemption money from those who exceeded the number of those who were redeemed by the Levites;
50. from the firstborn of the children of Israel he took the money, one thousand three hundred sixty-five shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary:
51. and Moshe gave the redemption money to Aharon and to his sons, according to the word of YHWH, as YHWH commanded Moshe.

Numbers 4
1. YHWH spoke to Moshe and to Aharon, saying,
2. "Take a census of the sons of Kohath from among the sons of Levi, by their families, by their fathers' houses,
3. from thirty years old and upward even until fifty years old, all who enter into the service, to do the work in the Tent of Meeting.
4. This is the service of the sons of Kohath in the Tent of Meeting, the most holy things.
5. When the camp moves forward, Aharon shall go in, and his sons, and they shall take down the veil of the screen, and cover the ark of the Testimony with it,
6. and shall put a covering of sealskin on it, and shall spread over it a cloth all of blue, and shall put in its poles.
7. On the table of show bread they shall spread a blue cloth, and put on it the dishes, the spoons, the bowls, and the cups with which to pour out; and the continual bread shall be on it.
8. They shall spread on them a scarlet cloth, and cover the same with a covering of sealskin, and shall put in its poles.
9. They shall take a blue cloth, and cover the lampstand of the light, and its lamps, and its snuffers, and its snuff dishes, and all its oil vessels, with which they minister to it.
10. They shall put it and all its vessels within a covering of sealskin, and shall put it on the frame.
11. On the golden altar they shall spread a blue cloth, and cover it with a covering of sealskin, and shall put in its poles.
12. They shall take all the vessels of ministry, with which they minister in the sanctuary, and put them in a blue cloth, and cover them with a covering of sealskin, and shall put them on the frame.
13. They shall take away the ashes from the altar, and spread a purple cloth on it.
14. They shall put on it all its vessels, with which they minister about it, the fire pans, the flesh hooks, the shovels, and the basins; all the vessels of the altar; and they shall spread on it a covering of sealskin, and put in its poles.
15. "When Aharon and his sons have finished covering the sanctuary, and all the furniture of the sanctuary, as the camp moves forward; after that, the sons of Kohath shall come to carry it: but they shall not touch the sanctuary, lest they die. These things are the burden of the sons of Kohath in the Tent of Meeting.
16. "The charge of Eleazar the son of Aharon the priest shall be the oil for the light, the sweet incense, the continual meal offering, and the anointing oil, the charge of all the tabernacle, and of all that is in it, the sanctuary, and its furnishings."
17. YHWH spoke to Moshe and to Aharon, saying,
18. "Don't cut off the tribe of the families of the Kohathites from among the Levites;
19. but thus do to them, that they may live, and not die, when they approach to the most holy things: Aharon and their sons shall go in, and appoint them everyone to their service and to their burden;
20. but they shall not go in to see the sanctuary even for a moment, lest they die."
21. YHWH spoke to Moshe, saying,
22. "Take a census of the sons of Gershon also, by their fathers' houses, by their families;
23. from thirty years old and upward until fifty years old shall you number them; all who enter in to wait on the service, to do the work in the Tent of Meeting.
24. This is the service of the families of the Gershonites, in serving and in bearing burdens:
25. they shall carry the curtains of the tabernacle, and the Tent of Meeting, its covering, and the covering of sealskin that is above on it, and the screen for the door of the Tent of Meeting,
26. and the hangings of the court, and the screen for the door of the gate of the court, which is by the tabernacle and around the altar, and their cords, and all the instruments of their service, and whatever shall be done with them. Therein shall they serve.
27. At the commandment of Aharon and his sons shall be all the service of the sons of the Gershonites, in all their burden, and in all their service; and you shall appoint to them in charge all their burden.
28. This is the service of the families of the sons of the Gershonites in the Tent of Meeting: and their charge shall be under the hand of Ithamar the son of Aharon the priest.
29. "As for the sons of Merari, you shall number them by their families, by their fathers' houses;
30. from thirty years old and upward even to fifty years old shall you number them, everyone who enters on the service, to do the work of the Tent of Meeting.
31. This is the charge of their burden, according to all their service in the Tent of Meeting: the tabernacle's boards, its bars, its pillars, its sockets,
32. and the pillars of the court around it, and their sockets, and their pins, and their cords, with all their instruments, and with all their service: and by name you shall appoint the instruments of the charge of their burden.
33. This is the service of the families of the sons of Merari, according to all their service, in the Tent of Meeting, under the hand of Ithamar the son of Aharon the priest."
34. Moshe and Aharon and the princes of the congregation numbered the sons of the Kohathites by their families, and by their fathers' houses,
35. from thirty years old and upward even to fifty years old, everyone who entered into the service, for work in the Tent of Meeting.
36. Those who were numbered of them by their families were two thousand seven hundred fifty.
37. These are those who were numbered of the families of the Kohathites, all who served in the Tent of Meeting, whom Moshe and Aharon numbered according to the commandment of YHWH by Moshe.
38. Those who were numbered of the sons of Gershon, their families, and by their fathers' houses,
39. from thirty years old and upward even to fifty years old, everyone who entered into the service, for work in the Tent of Meeting,
40. even those who were numbered of them, by their families, by their fathers' houses, were two thousand six hundred thirty.
41. These are those who were numbered of the families of the sons of Gershon, all who served in the Tent of Meeting, whom Moshe and Aharon numbered according to the commandment of YHWH.
42. Those who were numbered of the families of the sons of Merari, by their families, by their fathers' houses,
43. from thirty years old and upward even to fifty years old, everyone who entered into the service, for work in the Tent of Meeting,
44. even those who were numbered of them by their families, were three thousand two hundred.
45. These are those who were numbered of the families of the sons of Merari, whom Moshe and Aharon numbered according to the commandment of YHWH by Moshe.
46. All those who were numbered of the Levites, whom Moshe and Aharon and the princes of Israel numbered, by their families, and by their fathers' houses,
47. from thirty years old and upward even to fifty years old, everyone who entered in to do the work of service, and the work of bearing burdens in the Tent of Meeting,
48. even those who were numbered of them, were eight thousand five hundred eighty.
49. According to the commandment of YHWH they were numbered by Moshe, everyone according to their service, and according to their burden. Thus were they numbered by him, as YHWH commanded Moshe.

Numbers 5
1. YHWH spoke to Moshe, saying,
2. "Command the children of Israel that they put out of the camp every leper, and everyone who has an issue, and whoever is unclean by the dead.
3. Both male and female shall you put out, outside of the camp shall you put them; that they not defile their camp, in the midst of which I dwell."
4. The children of Israel did so, and put them out outside of the camp; as YHWH spoke to Moshe, so did the children of Israel.
5. YHWH spoke to Moshe, saying,
6. "Speak to the children of Israel: When someone or woman commits any sin that men commit, so as to trespass against YHWH, and that soul is guilty;
7. then he shall confess his sin which he has done, and he shall make restitution for his guilt in full, and add to it the fifth part of it, and give it to him in respect of whom he has been guilty.
8. But if the person has no kinsman to whom restitution may be made for the guilt, the restitution for guilt which is made to YHWH shall be the priest's; besides the ram of the atonement, by which atonement shall be made for him.
9. Every heave offering of all the holy things of the children of Israel, which they present to the priest, shall be his.
10. Everyone's holy things shall be their: whatever anyone gives the priest, it shall be their."
11. YHWH spoke to Moshe, saying,
12. "Speak to the children of Israel, and tell them: If anyone's wife goes astray, and is unfaithful to him,
13. and a person lies with her carnally, and it is hidden from the eyes of her husband, and is kept close, and she is defiled, and there is no witness against her, and she isn't taken in the act;
14. and the spirit of jealousy comes on him, and he is jealous of his wife, and she is defiled: or if the spirit of jealousy comes on him, and he is jealous of his wife, and she isn't defiled:
15. then the man shall bring his wife to the priest, and shall bring her offering for her: the tenth part of an ephah of barley meal. He shall pour no oil on it, nor put frankincense on it, for it is a meal offering of jealousy, a meal offering of memorial, bringing iniquity to memory.
16. The priest shall bring her near, and set her before YHWH;
17. and the priest shall take holy water in an earthen vessel; and of the dust that is on the floor of the tabernacle the priest shall take, and put it into the water.
18. The priest shall set the woman before YHWH, and let the hair of the woman's head go loose, and put the meal offering of memorial in her hands, which is the meal offering of jealousy. The priest shall have in his hand the water of bitterness that brings a curse.
19. The priest shall cause her to swear, and shall tell the woman, 'If no one has lain with you, and if you haven't gone aside to uncleanness, being under your husband, be free from this water of bitterness that brings a curse.
20. But if you have gone astray, being under your husband, and if you are defiled, and some a person has lain with you besides your husband:'
21. then the priest shall cause the woman to swear with the oath of cursing, and the priest shall tell the woman, 'YHWH make you a curse and an oath among your people, when YHWH allows your thigh to fall away, and your body to swell;
22. and this water that brings a curse will go into your bowels, and make your body swell, and your thigh fall away.' The woman shall say, 'Amen, Amen.'
23. "The priest shall write these curses in a book, and he shall blot them out into the water of bitterness.
24. He shall make the woman drink the water of bitterness that causes the curse; and the water that causes the curse shall enter into her and become bitter.
25. The priest shall take the meal offering of jealousy out of the woman's hand, and shall wave the meal offering before YHWH, and bring it to the altar.
26. The priest shall take a handful of the meal offering, as the memorial of it, and burn it on the altar, and afterward shall make the woman drink the water.
27. When he has made her drink the water, then it shall happen, if she is defiled, and has committed a trespass against her husband, that the water that causes the curse will enter into her and become bitter, and her body will swell, and her thigh will fall away: and the woman will be a curse among her people.
28. If the woman isn't defiled, but is clean; then she shall be free, and shall conceive seed.
29. "This is the law of jealousy, when a wife, being under her husband, goes astray, and is defiled;
30. or when the spirit of jealousy comes on a man, and he is jealous of his wife; then he shall set the woman before YHWH, and the priest shall execute on her all this law.
31. The person shall be free from iniquity, and that woman shall bear her iniquity."

Numbers 6
1. YHWH spoke to Moshe, saying,
2. "Speak to the children of Israel, and tell them: When either man or woman shall make a special vow, the vow of a Nazirite, to separate himself to YHWH,
3. he shall separate himself from wine and strong drink. He shall drink no vinegar of wine, or vinegar of fermented drink, neither shall he drink any juice of grapes, nor eat fresh grapes or dried.
4. All the days of his separation he shall eat nothing that is made of the grapevine, from the seeds even to the skins.
5. "All the days of his vow of separation there shall no razor come on his head, until the days are fulfilled, in which he separates himself to YHWH. He shall be holy. He shall let the locks of the hair of his head grow long.
6. "All the days that he separates himself to YHWH he shall not go near a dead body.
7. He shall not make himself unclean for his father, or for his mother, for his brother, or for his sister, when they die; because his separation to Elohim is on his head.
8. All the days of his separation he is holy to YHWH.
9. "If anyone dies very suddenly beside him, and they defiles the head of their separation; then he shall shave his head in the day of his cleansing. On the seventh day he shall shave it.
10. On the eighth day he shall bring two turtledoves or two young pigeons to the priest, to the door of the Tent of Meeting.
11. The priest shall offer one for a sin offering, and the other for a burnt offering, and make atonement for him, because he sinned by reason of the dead, and shall make his head holy that same day.
12. He shall separate to YHWH the days of his separation, and shall bring a male lamb a year old for a trespass offering; but the former days shall be void, because his separation was defiled.
13. "This is the law of the Nazirite: when the days of his separation are fulfilled, he shall be brought to the door of the Tent of Meeting,
14. and he shall offer his offering to YHWH, one male lamb a year old without blemish for a burnt offering, and one ewe lamb a year old without blemish for a sin offering, and one ram without blemish for peace offerings,
15. and a basket of unleavened bread, cakes of fine flour mixed with oil, and unleavened wafers anointed with oil, and their meal offering, and their drink offerings.
16. The priest shall present them before YHWH, and shall offer his sin offering, and his burnt offering.
17. He shall offer the ram for a sacrifice of peace offerings to YHWH, with the basket of unleavened bread. The priest shall offer also its meal offering, and its drink offering.
18. The Nazirite shall shave the head of his separation at the door of the Tent of Meeting, and shall take the hair of the head of his separation, and put it on the fire which is under the sacrifice of peace offerings.
19. The priest shall take the boiled shoulder of the ram, and one unleavened cake out of the basket, and one unleavened wafer, and shall put them on the hands of the Nazirite, after he has shaved the head of his separation;
20. and the priest shall wave them for a wave offering before YHWH. This is holy for the priest, together with the breast that is waved and the thigh that is offered. After that the Nazirite may drink wine.
21. "This is the law of the Nazirite who vows, and of his offering to YHWH for his separation, besides that which he is able to get. According to his vow which he vows, so he must do after the law of his separation."
22. YHWH spoke to Moshe, saying,
23. "Speak to Aharon and to his sons, saying, 'This is how you shall bless the children of Israel.' You shall tell them,
24. 'YHWH bless you, and keep you.
25. YHWH make his face to shine on you, and be gracious to you.
26. YHWH lift up his face toward you, and give you peace.'
27. "So they shall put my name on the children of Israel; and I will bless them."

Numbers 7
1. It happened on the day that Moshe had finished setting up the tabernacle, and had anointed it and sanctified it, with all its furniture, and the altar with all its vessels, and had anointed and sanctified them;
2. that the princes of Israel, the heads of their fathers' houses, offered. These were the princes of the tribes. These are they who were over those who were numbered:
3. and they brought their offering before YHWH, six covered wagons, and twelve oxen; a wagon for every two of the princes, and for each one an ox: and they presented them before the tabernacle.
4. YHWH spoke to Moshe, saying,
5. "Accept these from them, that they may be used in doing the service of the Tent of Meeting; and you shall give them to the Levites, to everyone according to their service."
6. Moshe took the wagons and the oxen, and gave them to the Levites.
7. He gave two wagons and four oxen to the sons of Gershon, according to their service:
8. and he gave four wagons and eight oxen to the sons of Merari, according to their service, under the direction of Ithamar the son of Aharon the priest.
9. But to the sons of Kohath he gave none, because the service of the sanctuary belonged to them; they carried it on their shoulders.
10. The princes gave offerings for the dedication of the altar in the day that it was anointed, even the princes gave their offerings before the altar.
11. YHWH said to Moshe, "They shall offer their offering, each prince on his day, for the dedication of the altar."
12. The one who offered their offering the first day was Nahshon the son of Amminadab, of the tribe of Yehudah,
13. and his offering was: one silver platter, the weight of which was one hundred thirty shekels, one silver bowl of seventy shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary; both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a meal offering;
14. one golden ladle of ten shekels, full of incense;
15. one young bull, one ram, one male lamb a year old, for a burnt offering;
16. one male goat for a sin offering;
17. and for the sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs a year old. This was the offering of Nahshon the son of Amminadab.
18. On the second day Nethanel the son of Zuar, prince of Yissakhar, gave his offering.
19. He offered for his offering: one silver platter, the weight of which was one hundred thirty shekels, one silver bowl of seventy shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary; both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a meal offering;
20. one golden ladle of ten shekels, full of incense;
21. one young bull, one ram, one male lamb a year old, for a burnt offering;
22. one male goat for a sin offering;
23. and for the sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five male goats, five male lambs a year old. This was the offering of Nethanel the son of Zuar.
24. On the third day Eliab the son of Helon, prince of the children of Zevulun
25. gave his offering: one silver platter, the weight of which was a hundred and thirty shekels, one silver bowl of seventy shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary; both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a meal offering;
26. one golden ladle of ten shekels, full of incense;
27. one young bull, one ram, one male lamb a year old, for a burnt offering;
28. one male goat for a sin offering;
29. and for the sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs a year old. This was the offering of Eliab the son of Helon.
30. On the fourth day Elizur the son of Shedeur, prince of the children of Reuven
31. gave his offering: one silver platter, the weight of which was one hundred thirty shekels, one silver bowl of seventy shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary; both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a meal offering;
32. one golden ladle of ten shekels, full of incense;
33. one young bull, one ram, one male lamb a year old, for a burnt offering;
34. one male goat for a sin offering;
35. and for the sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs a year old. This was the offering of Elizur the son of Shedeur.
36. On the fifth day Shelumiel the son of Zurishaddai, prince of the children of Shim'on
37. gave his offering: one silver platter, the weight of which was one hundred thirty shekels, one silver bowl of seventy shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary; both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a meal offering;
38. one golden ladle of ten shekels, full of incense;
39. one young bull, one ram, one male lamb a year old, for a burnt offering;
40. one male goat for a sin offering;
41. and for the sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs a year old: this was the offering of Shelumiel the son of Zurishaddai.
42. On the sixth day, Eliasaph the son of Deuel, prince of the children of Gad
43. gave his offering: one silver platter, the weight of which was one hundred thirty shekels, one silver bowl of seventy shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary; both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a meal offering;
44. one golden ladle of ten shekels, full of incense;
45. one young bull, one ram, one male lamb a year old, for a burnt offering;
46. one male goat for a sin offering;
47. and for the sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs a year old. This was the offering of Eliasaph the son of Deuel.
48. On the seventh day Elishama the son of Ammihud, prince of the children of Efrayim
49. gave his offering: one silver platter, the weight of which was one hundred thirty shekels, one silver bowl of seventy shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary; both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a meal offering;
50. one golden ladle of ten shekels, full of incense;
51. one young bull, one ram, one male lamb a year old, for a burnt offering;
52. one male goat for a sin offering;
53. and for the sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs a year old. This was the offering of Elishama the son of Ammihud.
54. On the eighth day Gamliel the son of Pedahzur, prince of the children of Menashe
55. gave his offering: one silver platter, the weight of which was one hundred thirty shekels, one silver bowl of seventy shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary; both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a meal offering;
56. one golden ladle of ten shekels, full of incense;
57. one young bull, one ram, one male lamb a year old, for a burnt offering;
58. one male goat for a sin offering;
59. and for the sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs a year old. This was the offering of Gamliel the son of Pedahzur.
60. On the ninth day Abidan the son of Gideoni, prince of the children of Binyamin
61. gave his offering: one silver platter, the weight of which was one hundred thirty shekels, one silver bowl of seventy shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary; both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a meal offering;
62. one golden ladle of ten shekels, full of incense;
63. one young bull, one ram, one male lamb a year old, for a burnt offering;
64. one male goat for a sin offering;
65. and for the sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs a year old. This was the offering of Abidan the son of Gideoni.
66. On the tenth day Ahiezer the son of Ammishaddai, prince of the children of Dan
67. gave his offering: one silver platter, the weight of which was one hundred thirty shekels, one silver bowl of seventy shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary; both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a meal offering;
68. one golden ladle of ten shekels, full of incense;
69. one young bull, one ram, one male lamb a year old, for a burnt offering;
70. one male goat for a sin offering;
71. and for the sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs a year old. This was the offering of Ahiezer the son of Ammishaddai.
72. On the eleventh day Pagiel the son of Ochran, prince of the children of Asher
73. gave his offering: one silver platter, the weight of which was one hundred thirty shekels, one silver bowl of seventy shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary; both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a meal offering;
74. one golden ladle of ten shekels, full of incense;
75. one young bull, one ram, one male lamb a year old, for a burnt offering;
76. one male goat for a sin offering;
77. and for the sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs a year old. This was the offering of Pagiel the son of Ochran.
78. On the twelfth day Ahira the son of Enan, prince of the children of Naphtali
79. gave his offering: one silver platter, the weight of which was one hundred thirty shekels, one silver bowl of seventy shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary; both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a meal offering;
80. one golden spoon of ten shekels, full of incense;
81. one young bull, one ram, one male lamb a year old, for a burnt offering;
82. one male goat for a sin offering;
83. and for the sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs a year old. This was the offering of Ahira the son of Enan.
84. This was the dedication of the altar, on the day when it was anointed, by the princes of Israel: twelve silver platters, twelve silver bowls, twelve golden ladles;
85. each silver platter weighing one hundred thirty shekels, and each bowl seventy; all the silver of the vessels two thousand four hundred shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary;
86. the twelve golden ladles, full of incense, weighing ten shekels apiece, after the shekel of the sanctuary; all the gold of the ladles weighed one hundred twenty shekels;
87. all the oxen for the burnt offering twelve bulls, the rams twelve, the male lambs a year old twelve, and their meal offering; and the male goats for a sin offering twelve;
88. and all the oxen for the sacrifice of peace offerings twenty-four bulls, the rams sixty, the male goats sixty, the male lambs a year old sixty. This was the dedication of the altar, after it was anointed.
89. When Moshe went into the Tent of Meeting to speak with YHWH, he heard his voice speaking to him from above the mercy seat that was on the ark of the Testimony, from between the two cherubim: and he spoke to him.

Numbers 8
1. YHWH spoke to Moshe, saying,
2. "Speak to Aharon, and tell him, 'When you light the lamps, the seven lamps shall give light in front of the lampstand.'"
3. Aharon did so. He lit its lamps to light the area in front of the lampstand, as YHWH commanded Moshe.
4. This was the workmanship of the lampstand, beaten work of gold. From its base to its flowers, it was beaten work: according to the pattern which YHWH had shown Moshe, so he made the lampstand.
5. YHWH spoke to Moshe, saying,
6. "Take the Levites from among the children of Israel, and cleanse them.
7. Thus shall you do to them, to cleanse them: sprinkle the water of cleansing on them, let them shave their whole bodies with a razor, and let them wash their clothes, and cleanse themselves.
8. Then let them take a young bull, and its meal offering, fine flour mixed with oil; and another young bull you shall take for a sin offering.
9. You shall present the Levites before the Tent of Meeting. You shall assemble the whole congregation of the children of Israel.
10. You shall present the Levites before YHWH. The children of Israel shall lay their hands on the Levites,
11. and Aharon shall offer the Levites before YHWH for a wave offering, on the behalf of the children of Israel, that it may be theirs to do the service of YHWH.
12. The Levites shall lay their hands on the heads of the bulls, and you shall offer the one for a sin offering, and the other for a burnt offering to YHWH, to make atonement for the Levites.
13. You shall set the Levites before Aharon, and before his sons, and offer them as a wave offering to YHWH.
14. Thus you shall separate the Levites from among the children of Israel, and the Levites shall be mine.
15. "After that, the Levites shall go in to do the service of the Tent of Meeting: and you shall cleanse them, and offer them as a wave offering.
16. For they are wholly given to me from among the children of Israel; instead of all who open the womb, even the firstborn of all the children of Israel, I have taken them to me.
17. For all the firstborn among the children of Israel are mine, both man and animal. On the day that I struck all the firstborn in the land of Mitzrayim, I sanctified them for myself.
18. I have taken the Levites instead of all the firstborn among the children of Israel.
19. I have given the Levites as a gift to Aharon and to his sons from among the children of Israel, to do the service of the children of Israel in the Tent of Meeting, and to make atonement for the children of Israel; that there be no plague among the children of Israel, when the children of Israel come near to the sanctuary."
20. Thus did Moshe, and Aharon, and all the congregation of the children of Israel, to the Levites. According to all that YHWH commanded Moshe concerning the Levites, so the children of Israel did to them.
21. The Levites purified themselves from sin, and they werehed their clothes; and Aharon offered them for a wave offering before YHWH; and Aharon made atonement for them to cleanse them.
22. After that, the Levites went in to do their service in the Tent of Meeting before Aharon, and before his sons: as YHWH had commanded Moshe concerning the Levites, so they did to them.
23. YHWH spoke to Moshe, saying,
24. "This is that which belongs to the Levites: from twenty-five years old and upward they shall go in to wait on the service in the work of the Tent of Meeting;
25. and from the age of fifty years they shall cease waiting on the work, and shall serve no more,
26. but shall minister with their brothers in the Tent of Meeting, to keep the charge, and shall do no service. Thus shall you do to the Levites concerning their duties."

Numbers 9
1. YHWH spoke to Moshe in the wilderness of Sinai, in the first month of the second year after they had come out of the land of Mitzrayim, saying,
2. "Moreover let the children of Israel keep the Passover in its appointed season.
3. On the fourteenth day of this month, at evening, you shall keep it in its appointed season--according to all its statutes, and according to all its ordinances, you shall keep it."
4. Moshe spoke to the children of Israel, that they should keep the Passover.
5. They kept the Passover in the first month, on the fourteenth day of the month, at evening, in the wilderness of Sinai. According to all that YHWH commanded Moshe, so the children of Israel did.
6. There were certain men, who were unclean because of the dead body of a person, so that they could not keep the Passover on that day, and they came before Moshe and before Aharon on that day.
7. Those men said to him, "We are unclean because of the dead body of a person. Why are we kept back, that we may not offer the offering of YHWH in its appointed season among the children of Israel?"
8. Moshe answered them, "Wait, that I may hear what YHWH will command concerning you."
9. YHWH spoke to Moshe, saying,
10. "Say to the children of Israel, 'If anyone of you or of your generations is unclean by reason of a dead body, or is on a journey far away, they shall still keep the Passover to YHWH.
11. In the second month, on the fourteenth day at evening they shall keep it; they shall eat it with unleavened bread and bitter herbs.
12. They shall leave none of it until the morning, nor break a bone of it. According to all the statute of the Passover they shall keep it.
13. But the one who is clean, and is not on a journey, and fails to keep the Passover, that soul shall be cut off from their people. Because he didn't offer the offering of YHWH in its appointed season, that man shall bear his sin.
14. If a foreigner lives among you, and desires to keep the Passover to YHWH; according to the statute of the Passover, and according to its ordinance, so shall he do. You shall have one statute, both for the foreigner, and for the one who is born in the land.'"
15. On the day that the tabernacle was raised up, the cloud covered the tabernacle, even the Tent of the Testimony: and at evening it was over the tabernacle as it were the appearance of fire, until morning.
16. So it was continually. The cloud covered it, and the appearance of fire by night.
17. Whenever the cloud was taken up from over the Tent, then after that the children of Israel traveled; and in the place where the cloud remained, there the children of Israel encamped.
18. At the commandment of YHWH, the children of Israel traveled, and at the commandment of YHWH they encamped. As long as the cloud remained on the tabernacle they remained encamped.
19. When the cloud stayed on the tabernacle many days, then the children of Israel kept the charge of YHWH, and didn't travel.
20. Sometimes the cloud was a few days on the tabernacle; then according to the commandment of YHWH they remained encamped, and according to the commandment of YHWH they traveled.
21. Sometimes the cloud was from evening until morning; and when the cloud was taken up in the morning, they traveled: or by day and by night, when the cloud was taken up, they traveled.
22. Whether it was two days, or a month, or a year that the cloud stayed on the tabernacle, remaining on it, the children of Israel remained encamped, and didn't travel; but when it was taken up, they traveled.
23. At the commandment of YHWH they encamped, and at the commandment of YHWH they traveled. They kept the charge of YHWH, at the commandment of YHWH by Moshe.

Numbers 10
1. YHWH spoke to Moshe, saying,
2. Make you two trumpets of silver; of beaten work shall you make them: and you shall use them for the calling of the congregation, and for the journeying of the camps.
3. When they shall blow them, all the congregation shall gather themselves to you at the door of the tent of meeting.
4. If they blow but one, then the princes, the heads of the thousands of Israel, shall gather themselves to you.
5. When you blow an alarm, the camps that lie on the east side shall take their journey.
6. When you blow an alarm the second time, the camps that lie on the south side shall take their journey: they shall blow an alarm for their journeys.
7. But when the assembly is to be gathered together, you shall blow, but you shall not sound an alarm.
8. The sons of Aharon, the priests, shall blow the trumpets; and they shall be to you for a statute forever throughout your generations.
9. When you go to war in your land against the adversary who oppresses you, then you shall sound an alarm with the trumpets; and you shall be remembered before YHWH your God, and you shall be saved from your enemies.
10. Also in the day of your gladness, and in your set feasts, and in the beginnings of your months, you shall blow the trumpets over your burnt offerings, and over the sacrifices of your peace offerings; and they shall be to you for a memorial before your God: I am YHWH your God.
11. It happened in the second year, in the second month, on the twentieth day of the month, that the cloud was taken up from over the tent of the testimony.
12. The children of Israel set forward according to their journeys out of the wilderness of Sinai; and the cloud abode in the wilderness of Paran.
13. They first took their journey according to the commandment of YHWH by Moshe.
14. In the first [place] the standard of the camp of the children of Yehudah set forward according to their armies: and over his army was Nahshon the son of Amminadab.
15. Over the army of the tribe of the children of Yissakhar was Nethanel the son of Zuar.
16. Over the army of the tribe of the children of Zevulun was Eliab the son of Helon.
17. The tent was taken down; and the sons of Gershon and the sons of Merari, who bore the tent, set forward.
18. The standard of the camp of Reuven set forward according to their armies: and over his army was Elizur the son of Shedeur.
19. Over the army of the tribe of the children of Shim'on was Shelumiel the son of Zurishaddai.
20. Over the army of the tribe of the children of Gad was Eliasaph the son of Deuel.
21. The Kohathites set forward, bearing the sanctuary: and [the others] did set up the tent against their coming.
22. The standard of the camp of the children of Efrayim set forward according to their armies: and over his army was Elishama the son of Ammihud.
23. Over the army of the tribe of the children of Menashe was Gamliel the son of Pedahzur.
24. Over the army of the tribe of the children of Binyamin was Abidan the son of Gideoni.
25. The standard of the camp of the children of Dan, which was the rearward of all the camps, set forward according to their armies: and over his army was Ahiezer the son of Ammishaddai.
26. Over the army of the tribe of the children of Asher was Pagiel the son of Ochran.
27. Over the army of the tribe of the children of Naphtali was Ahira the son of Enan.
28. Thus were the travels of the children of Israel according to their armies; and they set forward.
29. Moshe said to Hobab, the son of Reuel the Midianite, Moshe' father-in-law, We are journeying to the place of which YHWH said, I will give it to you: come you with us, and we will do you good; for YHWH has spoken good concerning Israel.
30. He said to him, I will not go; but I will depart to my own land, and to my relatives.
31. He said, Don't leave us, please; because you know how we are to encamp in the wilderness, and you shall be to us instead of eyes.
32. It shall be, if you go with us, yes, it shall be, that whatever good YHWH shall do to us, the same will we do to you.
33. They set forward from the Mount of YHWH three days' journey; and the ark of the covenant of YHWH went before them three days' journey, to seek out a resting place for them.
34. The cloud of YHWH was over them by day, when they set forward from the camp.
35. It happened, when the ark set forward, that Moshe said, Rise up, YHWH, and let your enemies be scattered; and let those who hate you flee before you.
36. When it rested, he said, Return, YHWH, to the ten thousands of the thousands of Israel.

Numbers 11
1. The people were as murmurers, [speaking] brokenness in the ears of YHWH: and when YHWH heard it, his anger was kindled; and the fire of YHWH burnt among them, and devoured in the uttermost part of the camp.
2. The people cried to Moshe; and Moshe prayed to YHWH, and the fire abated.
3. The name of that place was called Taberah, because the fire of YHWH burnt among them.
4. The mixed multitude that was among them lusted exceedingly: and the children of Israel also wept again, and said, Who shall give us flesh to eat?
5. We remember the fish, which we ate in Mitzrayim for nothing; the cucumbers, and the melons, and the leeks, and the onions, and the garlic:
6. but now our soul is dried away; there is nothing at all save this manna to look on.
7. The manna was like coriander seed, and the appearance of it as the appearance of bdellium.
8. The people went about, and gathered it, and ground it in mills, or beat it in mortars, and boiled it in pots, and made cakes of it: and the taste of it was as the taste of fresh oil.
9. When the dew fell on the camp in the night, the manna fell on it.
10. Moshe heard the people weeping throughout their families, everyone at the door of their tent: and the anger of YHWH was kindled greatly; and Moshe was displeased.
11. Moshe said to YHWH, Why have you dealt ill with your servant? and why haven't I found favor in your sight, that you lay the burden of all this people on me?
12. Have I conceived all this people? Have I brought them forth, that you should tell me, Carry them in your bosom, as a nurse carries a nursing infant, to the land which you swore to their fathers?
13. Where should I get meat to give to all this people? for they weep to me, saying, Give us meat, that we may eat.
14. I am not able to bear all this people alone, because it is too heavy for me.
15. If you deal thus with me, please kill me out of hand, if I have found favor in your sight; and let me not see my wretchedness.
16. YHWH said to Moshe, Gather to me seventy men of the elders of Israel, whom you know to be the elders of the people, and officers over them; and bring them to the tent of meeting, that they may stand there with you.
17. I will come down and talk with you there: and I will take of the Ruach which is on you, and will put it on them; and they shall bear the burden of the people with you, that you not bear it yourself alone.
18. Say you to the people, Sanctify yourselves against tomorrow, and you shall eat flesh; for you have wept in the ears of YHWH, saying, Who shall give us flesh to eat? for it was well with us in Mitzrayim: therefore YHWH will give you flesh, and you shall eat.
19. You shall not eat one day, nor two days, nor five days, neither ten days, nor twenty days,
20. but a whole month, until it come out at your nostrils, and it be loathsome to you; because that you have rejected YHWH who is among you, and have wept before him, saying, Why came we forth out of Mitzrayim?
21. Moshe said, The people, among whom I am, are six hundred thousand footmen; and you have said, I will give them flesh, that they may eat a whole month.
22. Shall flocks and herds be slain for them, to suffice them? or shall all the fish of the sea be gathered together for them, to suffice them?
23. YHWH said to Moshe, Has YHWH's hand grown short? now shall you see whether my word shall happen to you or not.
24. Moshe went out, and told the people the words of YHWH: and he gathered seventy men of the elders of the people, and set them round about the Tent.
25. YHWH came down in the cloud, and spoke to him, and took of the Ruach that was on him, and put it on the seventy elders: and it happened that when the Ruach rested on them, they prophesied, but they did so no more.
26. But there remained two men in the camp, the name of the one was Eldad, and the name of the other Medad: and the Ruach rested on them; and they were of those who were written, but had not gone out to the Tent; and they prophesied in the camp.
27. There ran a young person, and told Moshe, and said, Eldad and Medad do prophesy in the camp.
28. Yehoshua the son of Nun, the minister of Moshe, one of his chosen men, answered, My lord Moshe, forbid them.
29. Moshe said to him, Are you jealous for my sake? I wish that all YHWH's people were prophets, that YHWH would put his Ruach on them!
30. Moshe got him into the camp, he and the elders of Israel.
31. There went forth a wind from YHWH, and brought quails from the sea, and let them fall by the camp, about a day's journey on this side, and a day's journey on the other side, round about the camp, and about two cubits above the surface of the earth.
32. The people rose up all that day, and all the night, and all the next day, and gathered the quails: the one who gathered least gathered ten homers: and they spread them all abroad for themselves round about the camp.
33. While the flesh was yet between their teeth, before it was chewed, the anger of YHWH was kindled against the people, and YHWH struck the people with a very great plague.
34. The name of that place was called Kibrothhattaavah, because there they buried the people who lusted.
35. From Kibrothhattaavah the people traveled to Hazeroth; and they abode at Hazeroth.

Numbers 12
1. Miryam and Aharon spoke against Moshe because of the Cushite woman whom he had married; for he had married a Cushite woman.
2. They said, Has YHWH indeed spoken only with Moshe? Hasn't he spoken also with us? YHWH heard it.
3. Now the person Moshe was very humble, above all the people who were on the surface of the earth.
4. YHWH spoke suddenly to Moshe, and to Aharon, and to Miryam, Come out you three to the tent of meeting. They three came out.
5. YHWH came down in a pillar of cloud, and stood at the door of the Tent, and called Aharon and Miryam; and they both came forth.
6. He said, Hear now my words: if there be a prophet among you, I YHWH will make myself known to him in a vision, I will speak with him in a dream.
7. My servant Moshe is not so; he is faithful in all my house:
8. with him will I speak mouth to mouth, even manifestly, and not in dark speeches; and the form of YHWH shall he see: why then were you not afraid to speak against my servant, against Moshe?
9. The anger of YHWH was kindled against them; and he departed.
10. The cloud removed from over the Tent; and behold, Miryam was leprous, as [white as] snow: and Aharon looked at Miryam, and behold, she was leprous.
11. Aharon said to Moshe, Oh, my lord, please don't lay sin on us, for that we have done foolishly, and for that we have sinned.
12. Let her not, I pray, be as one dead, of whom the flesh is half consumed when he comes out of his mother's womb.
13. Moshe cried to YHWH, saying, Heal her, Elohim, I beg you.
14. YHWH said to Moshe, If her father had but spit in her face, shouldn't she be ashamed seven days? let her be shut up outside of the camp seven days, and after that she shall be brought in again.
15. Miryam was shut up outside of the camp seven days: and the people didn't travel until Miryam was brought in again.
16. Afterward the people traveled from Hazeroth, and encamped in the wilderness of Paran.

Numbers 13
1. YHWH spoke to Moshe, saying,
2. Send you men, that they may spy out the land of Canaan, which I give to the children of Israel: of every tribe of their fathers shall you send a person, everyone a prince among them.
3. Moshe sent them from the wilderness of Paran according to the commandment of YHWH: all of them people who were heads of the children of Israel.
4. These were their names: Of the tribe of Reuven, Shammua the son of Zaccur.
5. Of the tribe of Shim'on, Shaphat the son of Hori.
6. Of the tribe of Yehudah, Kalev the son of Jephunneh.
7. Of the tribe of Yissakhar, Igal the son of Yosef.
8. Of the tribe of Efrayim, Hoshea the son of Nun.
9. Of the tribe of Binyamin, Palti the son of Raphu.
10. Of the tribe of Zevulun, Gaddiel the son of Sodi.
11. Of the tribe of Yosef, [namely], of the tribe of Menashe, Gaddi the son of Susi.
12. Of the tribe of Dan, Ammiel the son of Gemalli.
13. Of the tribe of Asher, Sethur the son of Michael.
14. Of the tribe of Naphtali, Nahbi the son of Vophsi.
15. Of the tribe of Gad, Geuel the son of Machi.
16. These are the names of the people who Moshe sent to spy out the land. Moshe called Hoshea the son of Nun Yehoshua.
17. Moshe sent them to spy out the land of Canaan, and said to them, Go up this way by the South, and go up into the hill country:
18. and see the land, what it is; and the people who dwell therein, whether they are strong or weak, whether they are few or many;
19. and what the land is that they dwell in, whether it is good or bad; and what cities they are that they dwell in, whether in camps, or in strongholds;
20. and what the land is, whether it is fat or lean, whether there is wood therein, or not. Be of good courage, and bring of the fruit of the land. Now the time was the time of the first-ripe grapes.
21. So they went up, and spied out the land from the wilderness of Zin to Rehob, to the entrance of Hamath.
22. They went up by the South, and came to Chevron; and Ahiman, Sheshai, and Talmai, the children of Anak, were there. (Now Chevron was built seven years before Zoan in Mitzrayim.)
23. They came to the valley of Eshcol, and cut down from there a branch with one cluster of grapes, and they bore it on a staff between two; [they brought] also of the pomegranates, and of the figs.
24. That place was called the valley of Eshcol, because of the cluster which the children of Israel cut down from there.
25. They returned from spying out the land at the end of forty days.
26. They went and came to Moshe, and to Aharon, and to all the congregation of the children of Israel, to the wilderness of Paran, to Kadesh; and brought back word to them, and to all the congregation, and shown them the fruit of the land.
27. They told him, and said, We came to the land where you sent us; and surely it flows with milk and honey; and this is the fruit of it.
28. However the people who dwell in the land are strong, and the cities are fortified, [and] very great: and moreover we saw the children of Anak there.
29. Amalek dwells in the land of the South: and the Hittite, and the Jebusite, and the Amorite, dwell in the hill country; and the Canaanite dwells by the sea, and along by the side of the Yarden.
30. Kalev stilled the people before Moshe, and said, Let us go up at once, and possess it; for we are well able to overcome it.
31. But the people who went up with him said, We aren't able to go up against the people; for they are stronger than we.
32. They brought up an harmful report of the land which they had spied out to the children of Israel, saying, The land, through which we have gone to spy it out, is a land that eats up the inhabitants of it; and all the people who we saw in it are men of great stature.
33. There we saw the Nephilim, the sons of Anak, who come of the Nephilim: and we were in our own sight as grasshoppers, and so we were in their sight.

Numbers 14
1. All the congregation lifted up their voice, and cried; and the people wept that night.
2. All the children of Israel murmured against Moshe and against Aharon: and the whole congregation said to them, Would that we had died in the land of Mitzrayim! or would that we had died in this wilderness!
3. Why does YHWH bring us to this land, to fall by the sword? Our wives and our little ones will be a prey: wouldn't it be better for us to return into Mitzrayim?
4. They said one to another, Let us make a captain, and let us return into Mitzrayim.
5. Then Moshe and Aharon fell on their faces before all the assembly of the congregation of the children of Israel.
6. Yehoshua the son of Nun and Kalev the son of Jephunneh, who were of those who spied out the land, tore their clothes:
7. and they spoke to all the congregation of the children of Israel, saying, The land, which we passed through to spy it out, is an exceeding good land.
8. If YHWH delight in us, then he will bring us into this land, and give it to us; a land which flows with milk and honey.
9. Only don't rebel against YHWH, neither fear the people of the land; for they are bread for us: their defense is removed from over them, and YHWH is with us: don't fear them.
10. But all the congregation bade stone them with stones. The glory of YHWH appeared in the tent of meeting to all the children of Israel.
11. YHWH said to Moshe, How long will this people despise me? and how long will they not believe in me, for all the signs which I have worked among them?
12. I will strike them with the pestilence, and disinherit them, and will make of you a nation greater and mightier than they.
13. Moshe said to YHWH, Then the Egyptians will hear it; for you brought up this people in your might from among them;
14. and they will tell it to the inhabitants of this land. They have heard that you YHWH are in the midst of this people; for you YHWH are seen face to face, and your cloud stands over them, and you go before them, in a pillar of cloud by day, and in a pillar of fire by night.
15. Now if you shall kill this people as one man, then the nations which have heard the fame of you will speak, saying,
16. Because YHWH was not able to bring this people into the land which he swore to them, therefore he has slain them in the wilderness.
17. Now please let the power of YHWH be great, according as you have spoken, saying,
18. YHWH is slow to anger, and abundant in loving kindness, forgiving iniquity and disobedience; and that will by no means clear [the guilty], visiting the iniquity of the fathers on the children, on the third and on the fourth generation.
19. Pardon, Please, the iniquity of this people according to the greatness of your loving kindness, and according as you have forgiven this people, from Mitzrayim even until now.
20. YHWH said, I have pardoned according to your word:
21. but in very deed, as I live, and as all the earth shall be filled with the glory of YHWH;
22. because all those people who have seen my glory, and my signs, which I worked in Mitzrayim and in the wilderness, yet have tempted me these ten times, and have not listened to my voice;
23. surely they shall not see the land which I swore to their fathers, neither shall any of those who despised me see it:
24. but my servant Kalev, because he had another spirit with him, and has followed me fully, him will I bring into the land into which he went; and his seed shall possess it.
25. Now the Amalekite and the Canaanite dwell in the valley: tomorrow turn you, and get you into the wilderness by the way to the Red Sea.
26. YHWH spoke to Moshe and to Aharon, saying,
27. How long [shall I bear] with this brokenness congregation, that murmur against me? I have heard the murmurings of the children of Israel, which they murmur against me.
28. Tell them, As I live, says YHWH, surely as you have spoken in my ears, so will I do to you:
29. your dead bodies shall fall in this wilderness; and all who were numbered of you, according to your whole number, from twenty years old and upward, who have murmured against me,
30. surely you shall not come into the land, concerning which I swore that I would make you dwell therein, save Kalev the son of Jephunneh, and Yehoshua the son of Nun.
31. But your little ones, that you said should be a prey, them will I bring in, and they shall know the land which you have rejected.
32. But as for you, your dead bodies shall fall in this wilderness.
33. Your children shall be wanderers in the wilderness forty years, and shall bear your prostitution, until your dead bodies be consumed in the wilderness.
34. After the number of the days in which you spied out the land, even forty days, for every day a year, shall you bear your iniquities, even forty years, and you shall know my alienation.
35. I, YHWH, have spoken, surely this will I do to all this brokenness congregation, who are gathered together against me: in this wilderness they shall be consumed, and there they shall die.
36. The men, whom Moshe sent to spy out the land, who returned, and made all the congregation to murmur against him, by bringing up an harmful report against the land,
37. even those people who did bring up an harmful report of the land, died by the plague before YHWH.
38. But Yehoshua the son of Nun, and Kalev the son of Jephunneh, remained alive of those people who went to spy out the land.
39. Moshe told these words to all the children of Israel: and the people mourned greatly.
40. They rose up early in the morning, and got them up to the top of the mountain, saying, Behold, we are here, and will go up to the place which YHWH has promised: for we have sinned.
41. Moshe said, Why now do you disobey the commandment of YHWH, seeing it shall not prosper?
42. Don't go up, for YHWH isn't among you; that you not be struck down before your enemies.
43. For there the Amalekite and the Canaanite are before you, and you shall fall by the sword: because you are turned back from following YHWH, therefore YHWH will not be with you.
44. But they presumed to go up to the top of the mountain: nevertheless the ark of the covenant of YHWH, and Moshe, didn't depart out of the camp.
45. Then the Amalekite came down, and the Canaanite who lived in that mountain, and struck them and beat them down, even to Hormah.

Numbers 15
1. YHWH spoke to Moshe, saying,
2. Speak to the children of Israel, and tell them, When you are come into the land of your habitations, which I give to you,
3. and will make an offering by fire to YHWH, a burnt offering, or a sacrifice, to accomplish a vow, or as a freewill offering, or in your set feasts, to make a sweet savor to YHWH, of the herd, or of the flock;
4. then shall the one who offers their offering offer to YHWH a meal offering of a tenth part [of an ephah] of fine flour mixed with the fourth part of a hin of oil:
5. and wine for the drink offering, the fourth part of a hin, shall you prepare with the burnt offering, or for the sacrifice, for each lamb.
6. Or for a ram, you shall prepare for a meal offering two tenth parts [of an ephah] of fine flour mixed with the third part of a hin of oil:
7. and for the drink offering you shall offer the third part of a hin of wine, of a sweet savor to YHWH.
8. When you prepare a bull for a burnt offering, or for a sacrifice, to accomplish a vow, or for peace offerings to YHWH;
9. then shall he offer with the bull a meal offering of three tenth parts [of an ephah] of fine flour mixed with half a hin of oil:
10. and you shall offer for the drink offering half a hin of wine, for an offering made by fire, of a sweet savor to YHWH.
11. Thus shall it be done for each bull, or for each ram, or for each of the male lambs, or of the young goats.
12. According to the number that you shall prepare, so shall you do to everyone according to their number.
13. All who are native-born shall do these things after this manner, in offering an offering made by fire, of a sweet savor to YHWH.
14. If a stranger lives as a foreigner with you, or whoever may be among you throughout your generations, and will offer an offering made by fire, of a sweet savor to YHWH; as you do, so he shall do.
15. For the assembly, there shall be one statute for you, and for the stranger who lives as a foreigner [with you], a statute forever throughout your generations: as you are, so shall the foreigner be before YHWH.
16. One law and one ordinance shall be for you, and for the stranger who lives as a foreigner with you.
17. YHWH spoke to Moshe, saying,
18. Speak to the children of Israel, and tell them, When you come into the land where I bring you,
19. then it shall be that when you eat of the bread of the land, you shall offer up a wave offering to YHWH.
20. Of the first of your dough you shall offer up a cake for a wave offering: as the wave offering of the threshing floor, so shall you heave it.
21. Of the first of your dough you shall give to YHWH a wave offering throughout your generations.
22. When you shall err, and not observe all these commandments, which YHWH has spoken to Moshe,
23. even all that YHWH has commanded you by Moshe, from the day that YHWH gave commandment, and onward throughout your generations;
24. then it shall be, if it be done unwittingly, without the knowledge of the congregation, that all the congregation shall offer one young bull for a burnt offering, for a sweet savor to YHWH, with the meal offering of it, and the drink offering of it, according to the ordinance, and one male goat for a sin offering.
25. The priest shall make atonement for all the congregation of the children of Israel, and they shall be forgiven; for it was an error, and they have brought their offering, an offering made by fire to YHWH, and their sin offering before YHWH, for their error:
26. and all the congregation of the children of Israel shall be forgiven, and the stranger who lives as a foreigner among them; for in respect of all the people it was done unwittingly.
27. If one person sins unwittingly, then he shall offer a female goat a year old for a sin offering.
28. The priest shall make atonement for the soul who errs, when he sins unwittingly, before YHWH, to make atonement for him; and he shall be forgiven.
29. You shall have one law for the one who does anything unwittingly, for the one who is native-born among the children of Israel, and for the stranger who lives as a foreigner among them.
30. But the soul who does anything with a high hand, whether he is native-born or a foreigner, the same blasphemes YHWH; and that soul shall be cut off from among his people.
31. Because he has despised the word of YHWH, and has broken his commandment, that soul shall utterly be cut off; his iniquity shall be on him.
32. While the children of Israel were in the wilderness, they found a person gathering sticks on the Sabbath day.
33. Those who found him gathering sticks brought him to Moshe and Aharon, and to all the congregation.
34. They put him in custody, because it had not been declared what should be done to him.
35. YHWH said to Moshe, The person shall surely be put to death: all the congregation shall stone him with stones outside of the camp.
36. All the congregation brought him outside of the camp, and stoned him to death with stones; as YHWH commanded Moshe.
37. YHWH spoke to Moshe, saying,
38. Speak to the children of Israel, and tell them that they should make them fringes in the borders of their garments throughout their generations, and that they put on the fringe of each border a cord of blue:
39. and it shall be to you for a fringe, that you may look on it, and remember all the commandments of YHWH, and do them; and that you not follow after your own heart and your own eyes, after which you use to play the prostitute;
40. that you may remember and do all my commandments, and be holy to your God.
41. I am YHWH your God, who brought you out of the land of Mitzrayim, to be your God: I am YHWH your God.

Numbers 16
1. Now Korah, the son of Izhar, the son of Kohath, the son of Levi, with Dathan and Abiram, the sons of Eliab, and On, the son of Peleth, sons of Reuven, took [men]:
2. and they rose up before Moshe, with certain of the children of Israel, two hundred fifty princes of the congregation, called to the assembly, men of renown;
3. and they assembled themselves together against Moshe and against Aharon, and said to them, You take too much on you, seeing all the congregation are holy, everyone of them, and YHWH is among them: why then lift yourselves up above the assembly of YHWH?
4. When Moshe heard it, he fell on his face:
5. and he spoke to Korah and to all his company, saying, In the morning YHWH will show who are his, and who is holy, and will cause him to come near to him: even the one whom he shall choose he will cause to come near to him.
6. This do: take you censers, Korah, and all his company;
7. and put fire in them, and put incense on them before YHWH tomorrow: and it shall be that the person whom YHWH does choose, they [shall be] holy: you take too much on you, you sons of Levi.
8. Moshe said to Korah, Hear now, you sons of Levi:
9. [seems it but] a small thing to you, that the God of Israel has separated you from the congregation of Israel, to bring you near to himself, to do the service of the tent of YHWH, and to stand before the congregation to minister to them;
10. and that he has brought you near, and all your brothers the sons of Levi with you? and seek you the priesthood also?
11. Therefore you and all your company are gathered together against YHWH: and Aharon, what is the one who you murmur against him?
12. Moshe sent to call Dathan and Abiram, the sons of Eliab; and they said, We won't come up:
13. is it a small thing that you have brought us up out of a land flowing with milk and honey, to kill us in the wilderness, but you must needs make yourself also a prince over us?
14. Moreover you haven't brought us into a land flowing with milk and honey, nor given us inheritance of fields and vineyards: will you put out the eyes of these men? we won't come up.
15. Moshe was very angry, and said to YHWH, "Don't respect their offering: I have not taken one donkey from them, neither have I hurt one of them."
16. Moshe said to Korah, You and all your company go before YHWH, you, and they, and Aharon, tomorrow:
17. and take everyone their censer, and put incense on them, and bring you before YHWH everyone their censer, two hundred fifty censers; you also, and Aharon, each his censer.
18. They took everyone their censer, and put fire in them, and laid incense thereon, and stood at the door of the tent of meeting with Moshe and Aharon.
19. Korah assembled all the congregation against them to the door of the tent of meeting: and the glory of YHWH appeared to all the congregation.
20. YHWH spoke to Moshe and to Aharon, saying,
21. Separate yourselves from among this congregation, that I may consume them in a moment.
22. They fell on their faces, and said, Elohim, the God of the spirits of all flesh, shall one man sin, and will you be angry with all the congregation?
23. YHWH spoke to Moshe, saying,
24. Speak to the congregation, saying, Get away from around the tent of Korah, Dathan, and Abiram.
25. Moshe rose up and went to Dathan and Abiram; and the elders of Israel followed him.
26. He spoke to the congregation, saying, Depart, I pray you, from the tents of these wicked men, and touch nothing of theirs, lest you be consumed in all their sins.
27. So they got them up from the tent of Korah, Dathan, and Abiram, on every side: and Dathan and Abiram came out, and stood at the door of their tents, and their wives, and their sons, and their little ones.
28. Moshe said, Hereby you shall know that YHWH has sent me to do all these works; for [I have] not [done them] of my own mind.
29. If these men die the common death of all people, or if they be visited after the visitation of all people; then YHWH hasn't sent me.
30. But if YHWH make a new thing, and the ground open its mouth, and swallow them up, with all that appertain to them, and they go down alive into Sheol; then you shall understand that these men have despised YHWH.
31. It happened, as he made an end of speaking all these words, that the ground split apart that was under them;
32. and the earth opened its mouth, and swallowed them up, and their households, and all the people who appertained to Korah, and all their goods.
33. So they, and all that appertained to them, went down alive into Sheol: and the earth closed on them, and they perished from among the assembly.
34. All Israel that were round about them fled at the cry of them; for they said, Lest the earth swallow us up.
35. Fire came forth from YHWH, and devoured the two hundred fifty people who offered the incense.
36. YHWH spoke to Moshe, saying,
37. Speak to Eleazar the son of Aharon the priest, that he take up the censers out of the burning, and scatter you the fire yonder; for they are holy,
38. even the censers of these sinners against their own lives; and let them be made beaten plates for a covering of the altar: for they offered them before YHWH; therefore they are holy; and they shall be a sign to the children of Israel.
39. Eleazar the priest took the bronze censers, which those who were burnt had offered; and they beat them out for a covering of the altar,
40. to be a memorial to the children of Israel, to the end that no stranger, who isn't of the seed of Aharon, comes near to burn incense before YHWH; that he not be as Korah, and as his company: as YHWH spoke to him by Moshe.
41. But on the next day all the congregation of the children of Israel murmured against Moshe and against Aharon, saying, You have killed the people of YHWH.
42. It happened, when the congregation was assembled against Moshe and against Aharon, that they looked toward the tent of meeting: and behold, the cloud covered it, and the glory of YHWH appeared.
43. Moshe and Aharon came to the front of the tent of meeting.
44. YHWH spoke to Moshe, saying,
45. Get away from among this congregation, that I may consume them in a moment. They fell on their faces.
46. Moshe said to Aharon, Take your censer, and put fire therein from off the altar, and lay incense thereon, and carry it quickly to the congregation, and make atonement for them: for there is wrath gone out from YHWH; the plague is begun.
47. Aharon took as Moshe spoke, and ran into the midst of the assembly; and behold, the plague was begun among the people: and he put on the incense, and made atonement for the people.
48. He stood between the dead and the living; and the plague was stayed.
49. Now those who died by the plague were fourteen thousand and seven hundred, besides those who died about the matter of Korah.
50. Aharon returned to Moshe to the door of the tent of meeting: and the plague was stayed.

Numbers 17
1. YHWH spoke to Moshe, saying,
2. Speak to the children of Israel, and take of them rods, one for each fathers' house, of all their princes according to their fathers' houses, twelve rods: write you everyone's name on their rod.
3. You shall write Aharon's name on the rod of Levi; for there shall be one rod for each head of their fathers' houses.
4. You shall lay them up in the tent of meeting before the testimony, where I meet with you.
5. It shall happen, that the rod of the person whom I shall choose shall bud: and I will make to cease from me the murmurings of the children of Israel, which they murmur against you.
6. Moshe spoke to the children of Israel; and all their princes gave him rods, for each prince one, according to their fathers' houses, even twelve rods: and the rod of Aharon was among their rods.
7. Moshe laid up the rods before YHWH in the tent of the testimony.
8. It happened on the next day, that Moshe went into the tent of the testimony; and behold, the rod of Aharon for the house of Levi was budded, and put forth buds, and produced blossoms, and bore ripe almonds.
9. Moshe brought out all the rods from before YHWH to all the children of Israel: and they looked, and took everyone their rod.
10. YHWH said to Moshe, Put back the rod of Aharon before the testimony, to be kept for a token against the children of rebellion; that you may make an end of their murmurings against me, that they not die.
11. Thus did Moshe: as YHWH commanded him, so did he.
12. The children of Israel spoke to Moshe, saying, Behold, we perish, we are undone, we are all undone.
13. Everyone who comes near, who comes near to the tent of YHWH, dies: shall we perish all of us?

Numbers 18
1. YHWH said to Aharon, You and your sons and your fathers' house with you shall bear the iniquity of the sanctuary; and you and your sons with you shall bear the iniquity of your priesthood.
2. Your brothers also, the tribe of Levi, the tribe of your father, bring you near with you, that they may be joined to you, and minister to you: but you and your sons with you shall be before the tent of the testimony.
3. They shall keep your charge, and the charge of all the Tent: only they shall not come near to the vessels of the sanctuary and to the altar, that they not die, neither they, nor you.
4. They shall be joined to you, and keep the charge of the tent of meeting, for all the service of the Tent: and a stranger shall not come near to you.
5. You shall keep the charge of the sanctuary, and the charge of the altar; that there be wrath no more on the children of Israel.
6. I, behold, I have taken your brothers the Levites from among the children of Israel: to you they are a gift, given to YHWH, to do the service of the tent of meeting.
7. You and your sons with you shall keep your priesthood for everything of the altar, and for that within the veil; and you shall serve: I give you the priesthood as a service of gift: and the stranger who comes near shall be put to death.
8. YHWH spoke to Aharon, I, behold, I have given you the charge of my wave offerings, even all the holy things of the children of Israel; to you have I given them by reason of the anointing, and to your sons, as a portion forever.
9. This shall be your of the most holy things, [reserved] from the fire: every offering of theirs, even every meal offering of theirs, and every sin offering of theirs, and every trespass offering of theirs, which they shall render to me, shall be most holy for you and for your sons.
10. As the most holy things shall you eat of it; every male shall eat of it: it shall be holy to you.
11. This is your: the wave offering of their gift, even all the wave offerings of the children of Israel; I have given them to you, and to your sons and to your daughters with you, as a portion forever; everyone who is clean in your house shall eat of it.
12. All the best of the oil, and all the best of the vintage, and of the grain, the first fruits of them which they give to YHWH, to you have I given them.
13. The first-ripe fruits of all that is in their land, which they bring to YHWH, shall be yours; everyone who is clean in your house shall eat of it.
14. Everything devoted in Israel shall be yours.
15. Everything that opens the womb, of all flesh which they offer to YHWH, both of man and animal shall be yours: nevertheless the firstborn of man shall you surely redeem, and the firstborn of unclean animals shall you redeem.
16. Those who are to be redeemed of them from a month old shall you redeem, according to your estimation, for the money of five shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary (the same is twenty gerahs).
17. But the firstborn of a cow, or the firstborn of a sheep, or the firstborn of a goat, you shall not redeem; they are holy: you shall sprinkle their blood on the altar, and shall burn their fat for an offering made by fire, for a sweet savor to YHWH.
18. The flesh of them shall be your, as the wave offering breast and as the right thigh, it shall be yours.
19. All the wave offerings of the holy things, which the children of Israel offer to YHWH, have I given you, and your sons and your daughters with you, as a portion forever: it is a covenant of salt forever before YHWH to you and to your seed with you.
20. YHWH said to Aharon, You shall have no inheritance in their land, neither shall you have any portion among them: I am your portion and your inheritance among the children of Israel.
21. To the children of Levi, behold, I have given all the tithe in Israel for an inheritance, in return for their service which they serve, even the service of the tent of meeting.
22. Henceforth the children of Israel shall not come near the tent of meeting, lest they bear sin, and die.
23. But the Levites shall do the service of the tent of meeting, and they shall bear their iniquity: it shall be a statute forever throughout your generations; and among the children of Israel they shall have no inheritance.
24. For the tithe of the children of Israel, which they offer as a wave offering to YHWH, I have given to the Levites for an inheritance: therefore I have said to them, Among the children of Israel they shall have no inheritance.
25. YHWH spoke to Moshe, saying,
26. Moreover you shall speak to the Levites, and tell them, When you take of the children of Israel the tithe which I have given you from them for your inheritance, then you shall offer up a wave offering of it for YHWH, a tithe of the tithe.
27. Your wave offering shall be reckoned to you, as though it were the grain of the threshing floor, and as the fullness of the winepress.
28. Thus you also shall offer a wave offering to YHWH of all your tithes, which you receive of the children of Israel; and of it you shall give YHWH's wave offering to Aharon the priest.
29. Out of all your gifts you shall offer every wave offering of YHWH, of all the best of it, even the holy part of it out of it.
30. Therefore you shall tell them, When you heave the best of it from it, then it shall be reckoned to the Levites as the increase of the threshing floor, and as the increase of the winepress.
31. You shall eat it in every place, you and your households: for it is your reward in return for your service in the tent of meeting.
32. You shall bear no sin by reason of it, when you have heaved from it the best of it: and you shall not profane the holy things of the children of Israel, that you not die.

Numbers 19
1. YHWH spoke to Moshe and to Aharon, saying,
2. This is the statute of the law which YHWH has commanded, saying, Speak to the children of Israel, that they bring you a red heifer without spot, in which is no blemish, [and] on which never came yoke.
3. You shall give her to Eleazar the priest, and he shall bring her forth outside of the camp, and one shall kill her before his face:
4. and Eleazar the priest shall take of her blood with his finger, and sprinkle her blood toward the front of the tent of meeting seven times.
5. One shall burn the heifer in his sight; her skin, and her flesh, and her blood, with her dung, shall he burn:
6. and the priest shall take cedar wood, and hyssop, and scarlet, and cast it into the midst of the burning of the heifer.
7. Then the priest shall wash his clothes, and he shall bathe his flesh in water, and afterward he shall come into the camp, and the priest shall be unclean until the even.
8. The one who burns her shall wash their clothes in water, and bathe their flesh in water, and shall be unclean until the even.
9. A person who is clean shall gather up the ashes of the heifer, and lay them up outside of the camp in a clean place; and it shall be kept for the congregation of the children of Israel for a water for impurity: it is a sin offering.
10. The one who gathers the ashes of the heifer shall wash their clothes, and be unclean until the even: and it shall be to the children of Israel, and to the stranger who lives as a foreigner among them, for a statute forever.
11. The one who touches the dead body of anyone shall be unclean seven days:
12. the same shall purify himself therewith on the third day, and on the seventh day he shall be clean: but if he doesn't purify himself the third day, then the seventh day he shall not be clean.
13. Whoever touches a dead person, the body of a person who has died, and doesn't purify themselves, defiles the tent of YHWH; and that soul shall be cut off from Israel: because the water for impurity was not sprinkled on him, he shall be unclean; his uncleanness is yet on him.
14. This is the law when someone dies in a tent: everyone who comes into the tent, and everyone who is in the tent, shall be unclean seven days.
15. Every open vessel, which has no covering bound on it, is unclean.
16. Whoever in the open field touches one who is slain with a sword, or a dead body, or a bone of a person, or a grave, shall be unclean seven days.
17. For the unclean they shall take of the ashes of the burning of the sin offering; and running water shall be put thereto in a vessel:
18. and a clean person shall take hyssop, and dip it in the water, and sprinkle it on the tent, and on all the vessels, and on the persons who were there, and on the one who touched the bone, or the slain, or the dead, or the grave:
19. and the clean person shall sprinkle on the unclean on the third day, and on the seventh day: and on the seventh day he shall purify him; and he shall wash his clothes, and bathe himself in water, and shall be clean at even.
20. But the one who shall be unclean, and shall not purify themselves, that soul shall be cut off from the midst of the assembly, because they have defiled the sanctuary of YHWH: the water for impurity has not been sprinkled on him; he is unclean.
21. It shall be a perpetual statute to them: and the one who sprinkles the water for impurity shall wash their clothes, and the one who touches the water for impurity shall be unclean until even.
22. Whatever the unclean person touches shall be unclean; and the soul that touches it shall be unclean until even.

Numbers 20
1. The children of Israel, even the whole congregation, came into the wilderness of Zin in the first month: and the people abode in Kadesh; and Miryam died there, and was buried there.
2. There was no water for the congregation: and they assembled themselves together against Moshe and against Aharon.
3. The people strove with Moshe, and spoke, saying, Would that we had died when our brothers died before YHWH!
4. Why have you brought the assembly of YHWH into this wilderness, that we should die there, we and our animals?
5. Why have you made us to come up out of Mitzrayim, to bring us in to this brokenness place? it is no place of seed, or of figs, or of vines, or of pomegranates; neither is there any water to drink.
6. Moshe and Aharon went from the presence of the assembly to the door of the tent of meeting, and fell on their faces: and the glory of YHWH appeared to them.
7. YHWH spoke to Moshe, saying,
8. Take the rod, and assemble the congregation, you, and Aharon your brother, and speak you to the rock before their eyes, that it give forth its water; and you shall bring forth to them water out of the rock; so you shall give the congregation and their livestock drink.
9. Moshe took the rod from before YHWH, as he commanded him.
10. Moshe and Aharon gathered the assembly together before the rock, and he said to them, Hear now, you rebels; shall we bring you forth water out of this rock?
11. Moshe lifted up his hand, and struck the rock with his rod twice: and water came forth abundantly, and the congregation drank, and their livestock.
12. YHWH said to Moshe and Aharon, Because you didn't believe in me, to sanctify me in the eyes of the children of Israel, therefore you shall not bring this assembly into the land which I have given them.
13. These are the waters of Meribah; because the children of Israel strove with YHWH, and he was sanctified in them.
14. Moshe sent messengers from Kadesh to the king of Edom, Thus says your brother Israel, You know all the travail that has happened to us:
15. how our fathers went down into Mitzrayim, and we lived in Mitzrayim a long time; and the Egyptians dealt ill with us, and our fathers:
16. and when we cried to YHWH, he heard our voice, and sent an angel, and brought us forth out of Mitzrayim: and behold, we are in Kadesh, a city in the uttermost of your border.
17. Please let us pass through your land: we will not pass through field or through vineyard, neither will we drink of the water of the wells: we will go along the king's highway; we will not turn aside to the right hand nor to the left, until we have passed your border.
18. Edom said to him, You shall not pass through me, lest I come out with the sword against you.
19. The children of Israel said to him, We will go up by the highway; and if we drink of your water, I and my livestock, then will I give the price of it: let me only, without [doing] anything [else], pass through on my feet.
20. He said, You shall not pass through. Edom came out against him with much people, and with a strong hand.
21. Thus Edom refused to give Israel passage through his border: why Israel turned away from him.
22. They traveled from Kadesh: and the children of Israel, even the whole congregation, came to Mount Hor.
23. YHWH spoke to Moshe and Aharon in Mount Hor, by the border of the land of Edom, saying,
24. Aharon shall be gathered to his people; for he shall not enter into the land which I have given to the children of Israel, because you rebelled against my word at the waters of Meribah.
25. Take Aharon and Eleazar his son, and bring them up to Mount Hor;
26. and strip Aharon of his garments, and put them on Eleazar his son: and Aharon shall be gathered [to his people], and shall die there.
27. Moshe did as YHWH commanded: and they went up into Mount Hor in the sight of all the congregation.
28. Moshe stripped Aharon of his garments, and put them on Eleazar his son; and Aharon died there on the top of the mountain: and Moshe and Eleazar came down from the mountain.
29. When all the congregation saw that Aharon was dead, they wept for Aharon thirty days, even all the house of Israel.

Numbers 21
1. The Canaanite, the king of Arad, who lived in the South, heard tell that Israel came by the way of Atharim; and he fought against Israel, and took some of them captive.
2. Israel vowed a vow to YHWH, and said, If you will indeed deliver this people into my hand, then I will utterly destroy their cities.
3. YHWH listened to the voice of Israel, and delivered up the Canaanites; and they utterly destroyed them and their cities: and the name of the place was called Hormah.
4. They traveled from Mount Hor by the way to the Red Sea, to compass the land of Edom: and the soul of the people was much discouraged because of the way.
5. The people spoke against Elohim, and against Moshe, Why have you brought us up out of Mitzrayim to die in the wilderness? for there is no bread, and there is no water; and our soul loathes this light bread.
6. YHWH sent fiery serpents among the people, and they bit the people; and much people of Israel died.
7. The people came to Moshe, and said, We have sinned, because we have spoken against YHWH, and against you; pray to YHWH, that he take away the serpents from us. Moshe prayed for the people.
8. YHWH said to Moshe, Make you a fiery serpent, and set it on a standard: and it shall happen, that everyone who is bitten, when they see it, shall live.
9. Moshe made a serpent of brass, and set it on the standard: and it happened, that if a serpent had bitten anyone, when they looked to the serpent of brass, they lived.
10. The children of Israel traveled, and encamped in Oboth.
11. They traveled from Oboth, and encamped at Iyeabarim, in the wilderness which is before Moab, toward the sunrise.
12. From there they traveled, and encamped in the valley of Zered.
13. From there they traveled, and encamped on the other side of the Arnon, which is in the wilderness, that comes out of the border of the Amorites: for the Arnon is the border of Moab, between Moab and the Amorites.
14. Therefore it is said in the book of the Wars of YHWH, "Vaheb in Suphah, the valleys of the Arnon,
15. the slope of the valleys that incline toward the dwelling of Ar, leans on the border of Moab."
16. From there they traveled to Beer: that is the well of which YHWH said to Moshe, Gather the people together, and I will give them water.
17. Then sang Israel this song: "Spring up, well; sing to it:
18. the well, which the princes dug, which the nobles of the people dug, with the scepter, and with their poles." From the wilderness [they traveled] to Mattanah;
19. and from Mattanah to Nahaliel; and from Nahaliel to Bamoth;
20. and from Bamoth to the valley that is in the field of Moab, to the top of Pisgah, which looks down on the desert.
21. Israel sent messengers to Sihon king of the Amorites, saying,
22. Let me pass through your land: we will not turn aside into field, or into vineyard; we will not drink of the water of the wells: we will go by the king's highway, until we have passed your border.
23. Sihon would not allow Israel to pass through his border: but Sihon gathered all his people together, and went out against Israel into the wilderness, and came to Jahaz; and he fought against Israel.
24. Israel struck him with the edge of the sword, and possessed his land from the Arnon to the Jabbok, even to the children of Ammon; for the border of the children of Ammon was strong.
25. Israel took all these cities: and Israel lived in all the cities of the Amorites, in Heshbon, and in all the towns of it.
26. For Heshbon was the city of Sihon the king of the Amorites, who had fought against the former king of Moab, and taken all his land out of his hand, even to the Arnon.
27. Therefore those who speak in proverbs say, "Come to Heshbon. Let the city of Sihon be built and established;
28. for a fire has gone out of Heshbon, a flame from the city of Sihon. It has devoured Ar of Moab, The lords of the high places of the Arnon.
29. Woe to you, Moab! You are undone, people of Chemosh! He has given his sons as fugitives, and his daughters into captivity, to Sihon king of the Amorites.
30. We have shot at them. Heshbon has perished even to Dibon. We have laid waste even to Nophah, Which reaches to Medeba."
31. Thus Israel lived in the land of the Amorites.
32. Moshe sent to spy out Jazer; and they took the towns of it, and drove out the Amorites who were there.
33. They turned and went up by the way of Bashan: and Og the king of Bashan went out against them, he and all his people, to battle at Edrei.
34. YHWH said to Moshe, Don't fear him: for I have delivered him into your hand, and all his people, and his land; and you shall do to him as you did to Sihon king of the Amorites, who lived at Heshbon.
35. So they struck him, and his sons and all his people, until there was none left him remaining: and they possessed his land.

Numbers 22
1. The children of Israel traveled, and encamped in the plains of Moab beyond the Yarden at Yericho.
2. Balak the son of Zippor saw all that Israel had done to the Amorites.
3. Moab was sore afraid of the people, because they were many: and Moab was distressed because of the children of Israel.
4. Moab said to the elders of Midian, Now will this multitude lick up all that is round about us, as the ox licks up the grass of the field. Balak the son of Zippor was king of Moab at that time.
5. He sent messengers to Bil'am the son of Beor, to Pethor, which is by the River, to the land of the children of his people, to call him, saying, Behold, there is a people come out from Mitzrayim: behold, they cover the surface of the earth, and they abide over against me.
6. Please come now therefore curse me this people; for they are too mighty for me: peradventure I shall prevail, that we may strike them, and that I may drive them out of the land; for I know that the one whom you bless is blessed, and the one whom you curse is cursed.
7. The elders of Moab and the elders of Midian departed with the rewards of divination in their hand; and they came to Bil'am, and spoke to him the words of Balak.
8. He said to them, Lodge here this night, and I will bring you word again, as YHWH shall speak to me: and the princes of Moab abode with Bil'am.
9. Elohim came to Bil'am, and said, What people are these with you?
10. Bil'am said to Elohim, Balak the son of Zippor, king of Moab, has sent to me, [saying],
11. Behold, the people that is come out of Mitzrayim, it covers the surface of the earth: now, come curse me them; peradventure I shall be able to fight against them, and shall drive them out.
12. Elohim said to Bil'am, You shall not go with them; you shall not curse the people; for they are blessed.
13. Bil'am rose up in the morning, and said to the princes of Balak, Get you into your land; for YHWH refuses to give me leave to go with you.
14. The princes of Moab rose up, and they went to Balak, and said, Bil'am refuses to come with us.
15. Balak sent yet again princes, more, and more honorable than they.
16. They came to Bil'am, and said to him, Thus says Balak the son of Zippor, Please let nothing hinder you from coming to me:
17. for I will promote you to very great honor, and whatever you say to me I will do. Please come therefore, and curse this people for me.
18. Bil'am answered the servants of Balak, If Balak would give me his house full of silver and gold, I can't go beyond the word of YHWH my God, to do less or more.
19. Now therefore, please wait also here this night, that I may know what YHWH will speak to me more.
20. Elohim came to Bil'am at night, and said to him, If the people are come to call you, rise up, go with them; but only the word which I speak to you, that shall you do.
21. Bil'am rose up in the morning, and saddled his donkey, and went with the princes of Moab.
22. Elohim's anger was kindled because he went; and the angel of YHWH placed himself in the way for an adversary against him. Now he was riding on his donkey, and his two servants were with him.
23. The donkey saw the angel of YHWH standing in the way, with his sword drawn in his hand; and the donkey turned aside out of the way, and went into the field: and Bil'am struck the donkey, to turn her into the way.
24. Then the angel of YHWH stood in a narrow path between the vineyards, a wall being on this side, and a wall on that side.
25. The donkey saw the angel of YHWH, and she thrust herself to the wall, and crushed Bil'am's foot against the wall: and he struck her again.
26. The angel of YHWH went further, and stood in a narrow place, where was no way to turn either to the right hand or to the left.
27. The donkey saw the angel of YHWH, and she lay down under Bil'am: and Bil'am's anger was kindled, and he struck the donkey with his staff.
28. YHWH opened the mouth of the donkey, and she said to Bil'am, What have I done to you, that you have struck me these three times?
29. Bil'am said to the donkey, Because you have mocked me, I would there were a sword in my hand, for now I had killed you.
30. The donkey said to Bil'am, Am I not your donkey, on which you have ridden all your life long to this day? was I ever wont to do so to you? and he said, No.
31. Then YHWH opened the eyes of Bil'am, and he saw the angel of YHWH standing in the way, with his sword drawn in his hand; and he bowed his head, and fell on his face.
32. The angel of YHWH said to him, Why have you struck your donkey these three times? behold, I am come forth for an adversary, because your way is perverse before me:
33. and the donkey saw me, and turned aside before me these three times: unless she had turned aside from me, surely now I had even slain you, and saved her alive.
34. Bil'am said to the angel of YHWH, I have sinned; for I didn't know that you stood in the way against me: now therefore, if it displease you, I will get me back again.
35. The angel of YHWH said to Bil'am, Go with the men; but only the word that I shall speak to you, that you shall speak. So Bil'am went with the princes of Balak.
36. When Balak heard that Bil'am was come, he went out to meet him to the City of Moab, which is on the border of the Arnon, which is in the utmost part of the border.
37. Balak said to Bil'am, Didn't I earnestly send to you to call you? why didn't you come to me? am I not able indeed to promote you to honor?
38. Bil'am said to Balak, Behold, I have come to you: have I now any power at all to speak anything? the word that Elohim puts in my mouth, that shall I speak.
39. Bil'am went with Balak, and they came to Kiriath Huzoth.
40. Balak sacrificed oxen and sheep, and sent to Bil'am, and to the princes who were with him.
41. It happened in the morning, that Balak took Bil'am, and brought him up into the high places of Baal; and he saw from there the utmost part of the people.

Numbers 23
1. Bil'am said to Balak, Build me here seven altars, and prepare me here seven bulls and seven rams.
2. Balak did as Bil'am had spoken; and Balak and Bil'am offered on every altar a bull and a ram.
3. Bil'am said to Balak, Stand by your burnt offering, and I will go: perhaps YHWH will come to meet me; and whatever he shows me I will tell you. He went to a bare height.
4. Elohim met Bil'am: and he said to him, I have prepared the seven altars, and I have offered up a bull and a ram on every altar.
5. YHWH put a word in Bil'am's mouth, and said, Return to Balak, and thus you shall speak.
6. He returned to him, and behold, he was standing by his burnt offering, he, and all the princes of Moab.
7. He took up his parable, and said, From Aram has Balak brought me, The king of Moab from the mountains of the East: Come, curse me Ya'akov, Come, defy Israel.
8. How shall I curse, whom Elohim has not cursed? How shall I defy, whom YHWH has not defied?
9. For from the top of the rocks I see him, From the hills I see him: behold, it is a people that dwells alone, And shall not be reckoned among the nations.
10. Who can count the dust of Ya'akov, Or number the fourth part of Israel? Let me die the death of the righteous, Let my last end be like his!
11. Balak said to Bil'am, What have you done to me? I took you to curse my enemies, and behold, you have blessed them altogether.
12. He answered and said, Must I not take heed to speak that which YHWH puts in my mouth?
13. Balak said to him, Please come with me to another place, from whence you may see them; you shall see but the utmost part of them, and shall not see them all: and curse me them from there.
14. He took him into the field of Zophim, to the top of Pisgah, and built seven altars, and offered up a bull and a ram on every altar.
15. He said to Balak, Stand here by your burnt offering, while I meet [YHWH] yonder.
16. YHWH met Bil'am, and put a word in his mouth, and said, Return to Balak, and thus shall you speak.
17. He came to him, and behold, he was standing by his burnt offering, and the princes of Moab with him. Balak said to him, What has YHWH spoken?
18. He took up his parable, and said, Rise up, Balak, and hear! Listen to me, you son of Zippor.
19. Elohim is not a person, that they should lie, nor the child of humanity, that they should relent. Has he said, and will he not do it? Or has he spoken, and will he not make it good?
20. Behold, I have received a command to bless. He has blessed, and I can't reverse it.
21. He has not seen iniquity in Ya'akov. Neither has he seen perverseness in Israel. YHWH his God is with him. The shout of a king is among them.
22. Elohim brings them out of Mitzrayim. He has as it were the strength of the wild ox.
23. Surely there is no enchantment with Ya'akov; Neither is there any divination with Israel. Now it shall be said of Ya'akov and of Israel, What has Elohim done!
24. Behold, the people rises up as a lioness, As a lion he lifts himself up. He shall not lie down until he eat of the prey, and drinks the blood of the slain.
25. Balak said to Bil'am, Neither curse them at all, nor bless them at all.
26. But Bil'am answered Balak, Didn't I tell you, saying, All that YHWH speaks, that I must do?
27. Balak said to Bil'am, Come now, I will take you to another place; peradventure it will please Elohim that you may curse me them from there.
28. Balak took Bil'am to the top of Peor, that looks down on the desert.
29. Bil'am said to Balak, Build me here seven altars, and prepare me here seven bulls and seven rams.
30. Balak did as Bil'am had said, and offered up a bull and a ram on every altar.

Numbers 24
1. When Bil'am saw that it pleased YHWH to bless Israel, he didn't go, as at the other times, to meet with enchantments, but he set his face toward the wilderness.
2. Bil'am lifted up his eyes, and he saw Israel dwelling according to their tribes; and the Ruach of Elohim came on him.
3. They took up their parable, and said, Bil'am the son of Beor says, the person whose eye was closed says;
4. he says, who hears the words of Elohim, who sees the vision of the Almighty, falling down, and having his eyes open:
5. How goodly are your tents, Ya'akov, and your tents, Israel!
6. As valleys they are spread forth, as gardens by the riverside, as aloes which YHWH has planted, as cedar trees beside the waters.
7. Water shall flow from his buckets. His seed shall be in many waters. His king shall be higher than Agag. His kingdom shall be exalted.
8. Elohim brings him out of Mitzrayim. He has as it were the strength of the wild ox. He shall eat up the nations his adversaries, shall break their bones in pieces, and pierce them with his arrows.
9. He couched, he lay down as a lion, as a lioness; who shall rouse him up? Everyone who blesses you is blessed. Everyone who curses you is cursed.
10. Balak's anger was kindled against Bil'am, and he struck his hands together; and Balak said to Bil'am, I called you to curse my enemies, and, behold, you have altogether blessed them these three times.
11. Therefore now flee you to your place: I thought to promote you to great honor; but, behold, YHWH has kept you back from honor.
12. Bil'am said to Balak, Didn't I also tell your messengers who you sent to me, saying,
13. If Balak would give me his house full of silver and gold, I can't go beyond the word of YHWH, to do either good or bad of my own mind; what YHWH speaks, that will I speak?
14. Now, behold, I go to my people: come, [and] I will advertise you what this people shall do to your people in the latter days.
15. They took up their parable, and said, Bil'am the son of Beor says, the person whose eye was closed says;
16. he says, who hears the words of Elohim, knows the knowledge of the Most High, and who sees the vision of the Almighty, Falling down, and having his eyes open:
17. I see him, but not now. I see him, but not near. A star will come out of Ya'akov. A scepter will rise out of Israel, and shall strike through the corners of Moab, and break down all the sons of Sheth.
18. Edom shall be a possession. Seir, his enemies, also shall be a possession, while Israel does valiantly.
19. Out of Ya'akov shall one have dominion, and shall destroy the remnant from the city.
20. He looked at Amalek, and took up his parable, and said, Amalek was the first of the nations, But his latter end shall come to destruction.
21. He looked at the Kenite, and took up his parable, and said, Your dwelling place is strong. Your nest is set in the rock.
22. Nevertheless Kain shall be wasted, until Asshur carries you away captive.
23. He took up his parable, and said, Alas, who shall live when Elohim does this?
24. But ships [shall come] from the coast of Kittim. They shall afflict Asshur, and shall afflict Eber. He also shall come to destruction.
25. Bil'am rose up, and went and returned to his place; and Balak also went his way.

Numbers 25
1. Israel abode in Shittim; and the people began to play the prostitute with the daughters of Moab:
2. for they called the people to the sacrifices of their gods; and the people ate, and bowed down to their gods.
3. Israel joined himself to Baal Peor: and the anger of YHWH was kindled against Israel.
4. YHWH said to Moshe, Take all the chiefs of the people, and hang them up to YHWH before the sun, that the fierce anger of YHWH may turn away from Israel.
5. Moshe said to the judges of Israel, Kill you everyone their people who have joined themselves to Baal Peor.
6. Behold, one of the children of Israel came and brought to his brothers a Midianite woman in the sight of Moshe, and in the sight of all the congregation of the children of Israel, while they were weeping at the door of the tent of meeting.
7. When Phinehas, the son of Eleazar, the son of Aharon the priest, saw it, he rose up from the midst of the congregation, and took a spear in his hand;
8. and they went after the person of Israel into the pavilion, and thrust both of them through, the person of Israel, and the woman through her body. So the plague was stayed from the children of Israel.
9. Those who died by the plague were twenty-four thousand.
10. YHWH spoke to Moshe, saying,
11. Phinehas, the son of Eleazar, the son of Aharon the priest, has turned my wrath away from the children of Israel, in that he was jealous with my jealousy among them, so that I didn't consume the children of Israel in my jealousy.
12. Therefore say, Behold, I give to him my covenant of peace:
13. and it shall be to him, and to his seed after him, the covenant of an everlasting priesthood; because he was jealous for his God, and made atonement for the children of Israel.
14. Now the name of the person of Israel that was slain, who was slain with the Midianite woman, was Zimri, the son of Salu, a prince of a fathers' house among the Simeonites.
15. The name of the Midianite woman who was slain was Cozbi, the daughter of Zur; he was head of the people of a fathers' house in Midian.
16. YHWH spoke to Moshe, saying,
17. Vex the Midianites, and strike them;
18. for they vex you with their wiles, with which they have deceived you in the matter of Peor, and in the matter of Cozbi, the daughter of the prince of Midian, their sister, who was slain on the day of the plague in the matter of Peor.

Numbers 26
1. It happened after the plague, that YHWH spoke to Moshe and to Eleazar the son of Aharon the priest, saying,
2. Take the sum of all the congregation of the children of Israel, from twenty years old and upward, by their fathers' houses, all who are able to go forth to war in Israel.
3. Moshe and Eleazar the priest spoke with them in the plains of Moab by the Yarden at Yericho, saying,
4. [Take the sum of the people], from twenty years old and upward; as YHWH commanded Moshe and the children of Israel, that came forth out of the land of Mitzrayim.
5. Reuven, the firstborn of Israel; the sons of Reuven: [of] Hanoch, the family of the Hanochites; of Pallu, the family of the Palluites;
6. of Hezron, the family of the Hezronites; of Carmi, the family of the Carmites.
7. These are the families of the Reubenites; and those who were numbered of them were forty-three thousand seven hundred thirty.
8. The sons of Pallu: Eliab.
9. The sons of Eliab: Nemuel, and Dathan, and Abiram. These are that Dathan and Abiram, who were called of the congregation, who strove against Moshe and against Aharon in the company of Korah, when they strove against YHWH,
10. and the earth opened its mouth, and swallowed them up together with Korah, when that company died; what time the fire devoured two hundred fifty men, and they became a sign.
11. Notwithstanding, the sons of Korah didn't die.
12. The sons of Shim'on after their families: of Nemuel, the family of the Nemuelites; of Jamin, the family of the Jaminites; of Jachin, the family of the Jachinites;
13. of Zerah, the family of the Zerahites; of Shaul, the family of the Shaulites.
14. These are the families of the Simeonites, twenty-two thousand two hundred.
15. The sons of Gad after their families: of Zephon, the family of the Zephonites; of Haggi, the family of the Haggites; of Shuni, the family of the Shunites;
16. of Ozni, the family of the Oznites; of Eri, the family of the Erites;
17. of Arod, the family of the Arodites; of Areli, the family of the Arelites.
18. These are the families of the sons of Gad according to those who were numbered of them, forty thousand and five hundred.
19. The sons of Yehudah: Er and Onan; and Er and Onan died in the land of Canaan.
20. The sons of Yehudah after their families were: of Shelah, the family of the Shelanites; of Perez, the family of the Perezites; of Zerah, the family of the Zerahites.
21. The sons of Perez were: of Hezron, the family of the Hezronites; of Hamul, the family of the Hamulites.
22. These are the families of Yehudah according to those who were numbered of them, seventy-six thousand five hundred.
23. The sons of Yissakhar after their families: [of] Tola, the family of the Tolaites; of Puvah, the family of the Punites;
24. of Jashub, the family of the Jashubites; of Shimron, the family of the Shimronites.
25. These are the families of Yissakhar according to those who were numbered of them, sixty-four thousand three hundred.
26. The sons of Zevulun after their families: of Sered, the family of the Seredites; of Elon, the family of the Elonites; of Jahleel, the family of the Jahleelites.
27. These are the families of the Zebulunites according to those who were numbered of them, sixty thousand five hundred.
28. The sons of Yosef after their families: Menashe and Efrayim.
29. The sons of Menashe: of Machir, the family of the Machirites; and Machir became the father of Gilead; of Gilead, the family of the Gileadites.
30. These are the sons of Gilead: [of] Iezer, the family of the Iezerites; of Helek, the family of the Helekites;
31. and [of] Asriel, the family of the Asrielites; and [of] Shekhem, the family of the Shechemites;
32. and [of] Shemida, the family of the Shemidaites; and [of] Hepher, the family of the Hepherites.
33. Zelophehad the son of Hepher had no sons, but daughters: and the names of the daughters of Zelophehad were Mahlah, and Noah, Hoglah, Milcah, and Tirzah.
34. These are the families of Menashe; and those who were numbered of them were fifty-two thousand seven hundred.
35. These are the sons of Efrayim after their families: of Shuthelah, the family of the Shuthelahites; of Becher, the family of the Becherites; of Tahan, the family of the Tahanites.
36. These are the sons of Shuthelah: of Eran, the family of the Eranites.
37. These are the families of the sons of Efrayim according to those who were numbered of them, thirty-two thousand five hundred. These are the sons of Yosef after their families.
38. The sons of Binyamin after their families: of Bela, the family of the Belaites; of Ashbel, the family of the Ashbelites; of Ahiram, the family of the Ahiramites;
39. of Shephupham, the family of the Shuphamites; of Hupham, the family of the Huphamites.
40. The sons of Bela were Ard and Naaman: [of Ard], the family of the Ardites; of Naaman, the family of the Naamites.
41. These are the sons of Binyamin after their families; and those who were numbered of them were forty-five thousand six hundred.
42. These are the sons of Dan after their families: of Shuham, the family of the Shuhamites. These are the families of Dan after their families.
43. All the families of the Shuhamites, according to those who were numbered of them, were sixty-four thousand four hundred.
44. The sons of Asher after their families: of Imnah, the family of the Imnites; of Ishvi, the family of the Ishvites; of Beriah, the family of the Berites.
45. Of the sons of Beriah: of Heber, the family of the Heberites; of Malchiel, the family of the Malchielites.
46. The name of the daughter of Asher was Serah.
47. These are the families of the sons of Asher according to those who were numbered of them, fifty-three thousand and four hundred.
48. The sons of Naphtali after their families: of Jahzeel, the family of the Jahzeelites; of Guni, the family of the Gunites;
49. of Jezer, the family of the Jezerites; of Shillem, the family of the Shillemites.
50. These are the families of Naphtali according to their families; and those who were numbered of them were forty-five thousand four hundred.
51. These are those who were numbered of the children of Israel, six hundred one thousand seven hundred thirty.
52. YHWH spoke to Moshe, saying,
53. To these the land shall be divided for an inheritance according to the number of names.
54. To the more you shall give the more inheritance, and to the fewer you shall give the less inheritance: to everyone according to those who were numbered of him shall their inheritance be given.
55. Notwithstanding, the land shall be divided by lot: according to the names of the tribes of their fathers they shall inherit.
56. According to the lot shall their inheritance be divided between the more and the fewer.
57. These are those who were numbered of the Levites after their families: of Gershon, the family of the Gershonites; of Kohath, the family of the Kohathites; of Merari, the family of the Merarites.
58. These are the families of Levi: the family of the Libnites, the family of the Hebronites, the family of the Mahlites, the family of the Mushites, the family of the Korahites. Kohath became the father of Amram.
59. The name of Amram's wife was Jochebed, the daughter of Levi, who was born to Levi in Mitzrayim: and she bore to Amram Aharon and Moshe, and Miryam their sister.
60. To Aharon were born Nadab and Abihu, Eleazar and Ithamar.
61. Nadab and Abihu died, when they offered strange fire before YHWH.
62. Those who were numbered of them were twenty-three thousand, every male from a month old and upward: for they were not numbered among the children of Israel, because there was no inheritance given them among the children of Israel.
63. These are those who were numbered by Moshe and Eleazar the priest, who numbered the children of Israel in the plains of Moab by the Yarden at Yericho.
64. But among these there was not a person of them who were numbered by Moshe and Aharon the priest, who numbered the children of Israel in the wilderness of Sinai.
65. For YHWH had said of them, They shall surely die in the wilderness. There was not left a person of them, save Kalev the son of Jephunneh, and Yehoshua the son of Nun.

Numbers 27
1. Then drew near the daughters of Zelophehad, the son of Hepher, the son of Gilead, the son of Machir, the son of Menashe, of the families of Menashe the son of Yosef; and these are the names of his daughters: Mahlah, Noah, and Hoglah, and Milcah, and Tirzah.
2. They stood before Moshe, and before Eleazar the priest, and before the princes and all the congregation, at the door of the tent of meeting, saying,
3. Our father died in the wilderness, and he was not among the company of those who gathered themselves together against YHWH in the company of Korah: but he died in his own sin; and he had no sons.
4. Why should the name of our father be taken away from among his family, because he had no son? Give to us a possession among the brothers of our father.
5. Moshe brought their cause before YHWH.
6. YHWH spoke to Moshe, saying,
7. The daughters of Zelophehad speak right: you shall surely give them a possession of an inheritance among their father's brothers; and you shall cause the inheritance of their father to pass to them.
8. You shall speak to the children of Israel, saying, If someone die, and have no son, then you shall cause their inheritance to pass to their daughter.
9. If he have no daughter, then you shall give his inheritance to his brothers.
10. If he have no brothers, then you shall give his inheritance to his father's brothers.
11. If his father have no brothers, then you shall give his inheritance to his kinsman who is next to him of his family, and he shall possess it: and it shall be to the children of Israel a statute [and] ordinance, as YHWH commanded Moshe.
12. YHWH said to Moshe, Go up into this mountain of Abarim, and see the land which I have given to the children of Israel.
13. When you have seen it, you also shall be gathered to your people, as Aharon your brother was gathered;
14. because you rebelled against my word in the wilderness of Zin, in the strife of the congregation, to sanctify me at the waters before their eyes. (These are the waters of Meribah of Kadesh in the wilderness of Zin.)
15. Moshe spoke to YHWH, saying,
16. Let YHWH, the God of the spirits of all flesh, appoint a person over the congregation,
17. who may go out before them, and who may come in before them, and who may lead them out, and who may bring them in; that the congregation of YHWH not be as sheep which have no shepherd.
18. YHWH said to Moshe, Take Yehoshua the son of Nun, a person in whom is the Ruach, and lay your hand on him;
19. and set him before Eleazar the priest, and before all the congregation; and give him a charge in their sight.
20. You shall put of your honor on him, that all the congregation of the children of Israel may obey.
21. He shall stand before Eleazar the priest, who shall inquire for him by the judgment of the Urim before YHWH: at his word shall they go out, and at his word they shall come in, both he, and all the children of Israel with him, even all the congregation.
22. Moshe did as YHWH commanded him; and he took Yehoshua, and set him before Eleazar the priest, and before all the congregation:
23. and he laid his hands on him, and gave him a charge, as YHWH spoke by Moshe.

Numbers 28
1. YHWH spoke to Moshe, saying,
2. Command the children of Israel, and tell them, My offering, my food for my offerings made by fire, of a sweet savor to me, shall you observe to offer to me in their due season.
3. You shall tell them, This is the offering made by fire which you shall offer to YHWH: male lambs a year old without blemish, two day by day, for a continual burnt offering.
4. The one lamb shall you offer in the morning, and the other lamb shall you offer at even;
5. and the tenth part of an ephah of fine flour for a meal offering, mixed with the fourth part of a hin of beaten oil.
6. It is a continual burnt offering, which was ordained in Mount Sinai for a sweet savor, an offering made by fire to YHWH.
7. The drink offering of it shall be the fourth part of a hin for the one lamb: in the holy place shall you pour out a drink offering of strong drink to YHWH.
8. The other lamb shall you offer at even: as the meal offering of the morning, and as the drink offering of it, you shall offer it, an offering made by fire, of a sweet savor to YHWH.
9. On the Sabbath day two male lambs a year old without blemish, and two tenth parts [of an ephah] of fine flour for a meal offering, mixed with oil, and the drink offering of it:
10. this is the burnt offering of every Sabbath, besides the continual burnt offering, and the drink offering of it.
11. In the beginnings of your months you shall offer a burnt offering to YHWH: two young bulls, and one ram, seven male lambs a year old without blemish;
12. and three tenth parts [of an ephah] of fine flour for a meal offering, mixed with oil, for each bull; and two tenth parts of fine flour for a meal offering, mixed with oil, for the one ram;
13. and a tenth part of fine flour mixed with oil for a meal offering to every lamb; for a burnt offering of a sweet savor, an offering made by fire to YHWH.
14. Their drink offerings shall be half a hin of wine for a bull, and the third part of a hin for the ram, and the fourth part of a hin for a lamb: this is the burnt offering of every month throughout the months of the year.
15. One male goat for a sin offering to YHWH; it shall be offered besides the continual burnt offering, and the drink offering of it.
16. In the first month, on the fourteenth day of the month, is YHWH's Passover.
17. On the fifteenth day of this month shall be a feast: seven days shall unleavened bread be eaten.
18. In the first day shall be a holy convocation: you shall do no servile work;
19. but you shall offer an offering made by fire, a burnt offering to YHWH: two young bulls, and one ram, and seven male lambs a year old; they shall be to you without blemish;
20. and their meal offering, fine flour mixed with oil: three tenth parts shall you offer for a bull, and two tenth parts for the ram;
21. a tenth part shall you offer for every lamb of the seven lambs;
22. and one male goat for a sin offering, to make atonement for you.
23. You shall offer these besides the burnt offering of the morning, which is for a continual burnt offering.
24. After this manner you shall offer daily, for seven days, the food of the offering made by fire, of a sweet savor to YHWH: it shall be offered besides the continual burnt offering, and the drink offering of it.
25. On the seventh day you shall have a holy convocation: you shall do no servile work.
26. Also in the day of the first fruits, when you offer a new meal offering to YHWH in your [feast of] weeks, you shall have a holy convocation; you shall do no servile work;
27. but you shall offer a burnt offering for a sweet savor to YHWH: two young bulls, one ram, seven male lambs a year old;
28. and their meal offering, fine flour mixed with oil, three tenth parts for each bull, two tenth parts for the one ram,
29. a tenth part for every lamb of the seven lambs;
30. one male goat, to make atonement for you.
31. Besides the continual burnt offering, and the meal offering of it, you shall offer them (they shall be to you without blemish), and their drink offerings.

Numbers 29
1. In the seventh month, on the first day of the month, you shall have a holy convocation; you shall do no servile work: it is a day of blowing of trumpets to you.
2. You shall offer a burnt offering for a sweet savor to YHWH: one young bull, one ram, seven male lambs a year old without blemish;
3. and their meal offering, fine flour mixed with oil, three tenth parts for the bull, two tenth parts for the ram,
4. and one tenth part for every lamb of the seven lambs;
5. and one male goat for a sin offering, to make atonement for you;
6. besides the burnt offering of the new moon, and the meal offering of it, and the continual burnt offering and the meal offering of it, and their drink offerings, according to their ordinance, for a sweet savor, an offering made by fire to YHWH.
7. On the tenth day of this seventh month you shall have a holy convocation; and you shall afflict your souls: you shall do no manner of work;
8. but you shall offer a burnt offering to YHWH for a sweet savor: one young bull, one ram, seven male lambs a year old; they shall be to you without blemish;
9. and their meal offering, fine flour mixed with oil, three tenth parts for the bull, two tenth parts for the one ram,
10. a tenth part for every lamb of the seven lambs:
11. one male goat for a sin offering; besides the sin offering of atonement, and the continual burnt offering, and the meal offering of it, and their drink offerings.
12. On the fifteenth day of the seventh month you shall have a holy convocation; you shall do no servile work, and you shall keep a feast to YHWH seven days:
13. and you shall offer a burnt offering, an offering made by fire, of a sweet savor to YHWH; thirteen young bulls, two rams, fourteen male lambs a year old; they shall be without blemish;
14. and their meal offering, fine flour mixed with oil, three tenth parts for every bull of the thirteen bulls, two tenth parts for each ram of the two rams,
15. and a tenth part for every lamb of the fourteen lambs;
16. and one male goat for a sin offering, besides the continual burnt offering, the meal offering of it, and the drink offering of it.
17. On the second day [you shall offer] twelve young bulls, two rams, fourteen male lambs a year old without blemish;
18. and their meal offering and their drink offerings for the bulls, for the rams, and for the lambs, according to their number, after the ordinance;
19. and one male goat for a sin offering; besides the continual burnt offering, and the meal offering of it, and their drink offerings.
20. On the third day eleven bulls, two rams, fourteen male lambs a year old without blemish;
21. and their meal offering and their drink offerings for the bulls, for the rams, and for the lambs, according to their number, after the ordinance;
22. and one male goat for a sin offering; besides the continual burnt offering, and the meal offering of it, and the drink offering of it.
23. On the fourth day ten bulls, two rams, fourteen male lambs a year old without blemish;
24. their meal offering and their drink offerings for the bulls, for the rams, and for the lambs, according to their number, after the ordinance;
25. and one male goat for a sin offering; besides the continual burnt offering, the meal offering of it, and the drink offering of it.
26. On the fifth day nine bulls, two rams, fourteen male lambs a year old without blemish;
27. and their meal offering and their drink offerings for the bulls, for the rams, and for the lambs, according to their number, after the ordinance;
28. and one male goat for a sin offering, besides the continual burnt offering, and the meal offering of it, and the drink offering of it.
29. On the sixth day eight bulls, two rams, fourteen male lambs a year old without blemish;
30. and their meal offering and their drink offerings for the bulls, for the rams, and for the lambs, according to their number, after the ordinance;
31. and one male goat for a sin offering; besides the continual burnt offering, the meal offering of it, and the drink offerings of it.
32. On the seventh day seven bulls, two rams, fourteen male lambs a year old without blemish;
33. and their meal offering and their drink offerings for the bulls, for the rams, and for the lambs, according to their number, after the ordinance;
34. and one male goat for a sin offering; besides the continual burnt offering, the meal offering of it, and the drink offering of it.
35. On the eighth day you shall have a solemn assembly: you shall do no servile work;
36. but you shall offer a burnt offering, an offering made by fire, of a sweet savor to YHWH: one bull, one ram, seven male lambs a year old without blemish;
37. their meal offering and their drink offerings for the bull, for the ram, and for the lambs, shall be according to their number, after the ordinance:
38. and one male goat for a sin offering, besides the continual burnt offering, and the meal offering of it, and the drink offering of it.
39. These you shall offer to YHWH in your set feasts, besides your vows, and your freewill offerings, for your burnt offerings, and for your meal offerings, and for your drink offerings, and for your peace offerings.
40. Moshe told the children of Israel according to all that YHWH commanded Moshe.

Numbers 30
1. Moshe spoke to the heads of the tribes of the children of Israel, saying, This is the thing which YHWH has commanded.
2. When someone vows a vow to YHWH, or swears an oath to bind their soul with a bond, they shall not break their word; he shall do according to all that proceeds out of his mouth.
3. Also when a woman vows a vow to YHWH, and binds herself by a bond, being in her father's house, in her youth,
4. and her father hears her vow, and her bond with which she has bound her soul, and her father holds his peace at her; then all her vows shall stand, and every bond with which she has bound her soul shall stand.
5. But if her father disallow her in the day that he hears, none of her vows, or of her bonds with which she has bound her soul, shall stand: and YHWH will forgive her, because her father disallowed her.
6. If she be [married] to a husband, while her vows are on her, or the rash utterance of her lips, with which she has bound her soul,
7. and her husband hear it, and hold his peace at her in the day that he hears it; then her vows shall stand, and her bonds with which she has bound her soul shall stand.
8. But if her husband disallow her in the day that he hears it, then he shall make void her vow which is on her, and the rash utterance of her lips, with which she has bound her soul: and YHWH will forgive her.
9. But the vow of a widow, or of her who is divorced, [even] everything with which she has bound her soul, shall stand against her.
10. If she vowed in her husband's house, or bound her soul by a bond with an oath,
11. and her husband heard it, and held his peace at her, and didn't disallow her; then all her vows shall stand, and every bond with which she bound her soul shall stand.
12. But if her husband made them null and void in the day that he heard them, then whatever proceeded out of her lips concerning her vows, or concerning the bond of her soul, shall not stand: her husband has made them void; and YHWH will forgive her.
13. Every vow, and every binding oath to afflict the soul, her husband may establish it, or her husband may make it void.
14. But if her husband altogether hold his peace at her from day to day, then he establishes all her vows, or all her bonds, which are on her: he has established them, because he held his peace at her in the day that he heard them.
15. But if he shall make them null and void after that he has heard them, then he shall bear her iniquity.
16. These are the statutes, which YHWH commanded Moshe, between a husband and his wife, between a father and his daughter, being in her youth, in her father's house.

Numbers 31
1. YHWH spoke to Moshe, saying,
2. Avenge the children of Israel of the Midianites: afterward you shall be gathered to your people.
3. Moshe spoke to the people, saying, Arm you men from among you for the war, that they may go against Midian, to execute YHWH's vengeance on Midian.
4. Of every tribe one thousand, throughout all the tribes of Israel, shall you send to the war.
5. So there were delivered, out of the thousands of Israel, a thousand of every tribe, twelve thousand armed for war.
6. Moshe sent them, one thousand of every tribe, to the war, them and Phinehas the son of Eleazar the priest, to the war, with the vessels of the sanctuary and the trumpets for the alarm in his hand.
7. They warred against Midian, as YHWH commanded Moshe; and they killed every male.
8. They killed the kings of Midian with the rest of their slain: Evi, and Rekem, and Zur, and Hur, and Reba, the five kings of Midian: Bil'am also the son of Beor they killed with the sword.
9. The children of Israel took captive the women of Midian and their little ones; and all their livestock, and all their flocks, and all their goods, they took for a prey.
10. All their cities in the places in which they lived, and all their encampments, they burnt with fire.
11. They took all the spoil, and all the prey, both of man and of animal.
12. They brought the captives, and the prey, and the spoil, to Moshe, and to Eleazar the priest, and to the congregation of the children of Israel, to the camp at the plains of Moab, which are by the Yarden at Yericho.
13. Moshe, and Eleazar the priest, and all the princes of the congregation, went forth to meet them outside of the camp.
14. Moshe was angry with the officers of the army, the captains of thousands and the captains of hundreds, who came from the service of the war.
15. Moshe said to them, Have you saved all the women alive?
16. Behold, these caused the children of Israel, through the counsel of Bil'am, to commit trespass against YHWH in the matter of Peor, and so the plague was among the congregation of YHWH.
17. Now therefore kill every male among the little ones, and kill every woman who has known man by lying with him.
18. But all the girls, who have not known man by lying with him, keep alive for yourselves.
19. Encamp you outside of the camp seven days: whoever has killed any person, and whoever has touched any slain, purify yourselves on the third day and on the seventh day, you and your captives.
20. As to every garment, and all that is made of skin, and all work of goats' [hair], and all things made of wood, you shall purify yourselves.
21. Eleazar the priest said to the men of war who went to the battle, This is the statute of the law which YHWH has commanded Moshe:
22. however the gold, and the silver, the brass, the iron, the tin, and the lead,
23. everything that may abide the fire, you shall make to go through the fire, and it shall be clean; nevertheless it shall be purified with the water for impurity: and all that doesn't withstand the fire you shall make to go through the water.
24. You shall wash your clothes on the seventh day, and you shall be clean; and afterward you shall come into the camp.
25. YHWH spoke to Moshe, saying,
26. Take the sum of the prey that was taken, both of man and of animal, you, and Eleazar the priest, and the heads of the fathers' [houses] of the congregation;
27. and divide the prey into two parts: between the men skilled in war, who went out to battle, and all the congregation.
28. Levy a tribute to YHWH of the men of war who went out to battle: one soul of five hundred, [both] of the persons, and of the oxen, and of the donkeys, and of the flocks:
29. take it of their half, and give it to Eleazar the priest, for YHWH's wave offering.
30. Of the children of Israel's half, you shall take one drawn out of every fifty, of the persons, of the oxen, of the donkeys, and of the flocks, [even] of all the livestock, and give them to the Levites, who keep the charge of the tent of YHWH.
31. Moshe and Eleazar the priest did as YHWH commanded Moshe.
32. Now the prey, over and above the booty which the men of war took, was six hundred seventy-five thousand sheep,
33. and seventy-two thousand oxen,
34. and sixty-one thousand donkeys,
35. and thirty-two thousand persons in all, of the women who had not known man by lying with him.
36. The half, which was the portion of those who went out to war, was in number three hundred thirty-seven thousand five hundred sheep:
37. and YHWH's tribute of the sheep was six hundred seventy-five.
38. The oxen were thirty-six thousand; of which YHWH's tribute was seventy-two.
39. The donkeys were thirty thousand five hundred; of which YHWH's tribute was sixty-one.
40. The persons were sixteen thousand; of whom YHWH's tribute was thirty-two persons.
41. Moshe gave the tribute, which was YHWH's wave offering, to Eleazar the priest, as YHWH commanded Moshe.
42. Of the children of Israel's half, which Moshe divided off from the people who warred
43. (now the congregation's half was three hundred thirty-seven thousand five hundred sheep,
44. and thirty-six thousand oxen,
45. and thirty thousand five hundred donkeys,
46. and sixteen thousand persons),
47. even of the children of Israel's half, Moshe took one drawn out of every fifty, both of man and of animal, and gave them to the Levites, who kept the charge of the tent of YHWH; as YHWH commanded Moshe.
48. The officers who were over the thousands of the army, the captains of thousands, and the captains of hundreds, came near to Moshe;
49. and they said to Moshe, Your servants have taken the sum of the men of war who are under our charge, and there lacks not one man of us.
50. We have brought YHWH's offering, what everyone has gotten, of jewels of gold, armlets, and bracelets, signet rings, earrings, and necklaces, to make atonement for our souls before YHWH.
51. Moshe and Eleazar the priest took the gold of them, even all worked jewels.
52. All the gold of the wave offering that they offered up to YHWH, of the captains of thousands, and of the captains of hundreds, was sixteen thousand seven hundred fifty shekels.
53. ([For] the men of war had taken booty, everyone for themselves.)
54. Moshe and Eleazar the priest took the gold of the captains of thousands and of hundreds, and brought it into the tent of meeting, for a memorial for the children of Israel before YHWH.

Numbers 32
1. Now the children of Reuven and the children of Gad had a very great multitude of livestock: and when they saw the land of Jazer, and the land of Gilead, that behold, the place was a place for livestock;
2. the children of Gad and the children of Reuven came and spoke to Moshe, and to Eleazar the priest, and to the princes of the congregation, saying,
3. Ataroth, and Dibon, and Jazer, and Nimrah, and Heshbon, and Elealeh, and Sebam, and Nebo, and Beon,
4. the land which YHWH struck before the congregation of Israel, is a land for livestock; and your servants have livestock.
5. They said, If we have found favor in your sight, let this land be given to your servants for a possession; don't bring us over the Yarden.
6. Moshe said to the children of Gad, and to the children of Reuven, Shall your brothers go to the war, and shall you sit here?
7. Why discourage you the heart of the children of Israel from going over into the land which YHWH has given them?
8. Thus did your fathers, when I sent them from Kadesh Barnea to see the land.
9. For when they went up to the valley of Eshcol, and saw the land, they discouraged the heart of the children of Israel, that they should not go into the land which YHWH had given them.
10. YHWH's anger was kindled in that day, and he swore, saying,
11. Surely none of the people who came up out of Mitzrayim, from twenty years old and upward, shall see the land which I swore to Avraham, to Yitzhak, and to Ya'akov; because they have not wholly followed me:
12. save Kalev the son of Jephunneh the Kenizzite, and Yehoshua the son of Nun; because they have wholly followed YHWH.
13. YHWH's anger was kindled against Israel, and he made them wander back and forth in the wilderness forty years, until all the generation, who had done brokenness in the sight of YHWH, was consumed.
14. Behold, you are risen up in your fathers' place, an increase of sinful men, to augment yet the fierce anger of YHWH toward Israel.
15. For if you turn away from after him, he will yet again leave them in the wilderness; and you will destroy all this people.
16. They came near to him, and said, We will build sheepfolds here for our livestock, and cities for our little ones:
17. but we ourselves will be ready armed to go before the children of Israel, until we have brought them to their place: and our little ones shall dwell in the fortified cities because of the inhabitants of the land.
18. We will not return to our houses, until the children of Israel have inherited everyone their inheritance.
19. For we will not inherit with them on the other side of the Yarden, and forward; because our inheritance is fallen to us on this side of the Yarden eastward.
20. Moshe said to them, If you will do this thing, if you will arm yourselves to go before YHWH to the war,
21. and every armed man of you will pass over the Yarden before YHWH, until he has driven out his enemies from before him,
22. and the land is subdued before YHWH; then afterward you shall return, and be guiltless towards YHWH, and towards Israel; and this land shall be to you for a possession before YHWH.
23. But if you will not do so, behold, you have sinned against YHWH; and be sure your sin will find you out.
24. Build you cities for your little ones, and folds for your sheep; and do that which has proceeded out of your mouth.
25. The children of Gad and the children of Reuven spoke to Moshe, saying, Your servants will do as my lord commands.
26. Our little ones, our wives, our flocks, and all our livestock, shall be there in the cities of Gilead;
27. but your servants will pass over, everyone who is armed for war, before YHWH to battle, as my lord says.
28. So Moshe gave charge concerning them to Eleazar the priest, and to Yehoshua the son of Nun, and to the heads of the fathers' [houses] of the tribes of the children of Israel.
29. Moshe said to them, If the children of Gad and the children of Reuven will pass with you over the Yarden, everyone who is armed to battle, before YHWH, and the land shall be subdued before you; then you shall give them the land of Gilead for a possession:
30. but if they will not pass over with you armed, they shall have possessions among you in the land of Canaan.
31. The children of Gad and the children of Reuven answered, saying, As YHWH has said to your servants, so will we do.
32. We will pass over armed before YHWH into the land of Canaan, and the possession of our inheritance [shall remain] with us beyond the Yarden.
33. Moshe gave to them, even to the children of Gad, and to the children of Reuven, and to the half-tribe of Menashe the son of Yosef, the kingdom of Sihon king of the Amorites, and the kingdom of Og king of Bashan, the land, according to the cities of it with [their] borders, even the cities of the land round about.
34. The children of Gad built Dibon, and Ataroth, and Aroer,
35. and Atrothshophan, and Jazer, and Jogbehah,
36. and Beth Nimrah, and Beth Haran: fortified cities, and folds for sheep.
37. The children of Reuven built Heshbon, and Elealeh, and Kiriathaim,
38. and Nebo, and Baal Meon, (their names being changed), and Sibmah: and they gave other names to the cities which they built.
39. The children of Machir the son of Menashe went to Gilead, and took it, and dispossessed the Amorites who were therein.
40. Moshe gave Gilead to Machir the son of Menashe; and he lived therein.
41. Jair the son of Menashe went and took the towns of it, and called them Havvoth Jair.
42. Nobah went and took Kenath, and the villages of it, and called it Nobah, after his own name.

Numbers 33
1. These are the journeys of the children of Israel, when they went forth out of the land of Mitzrayim by their armies under the hand of Moshe and Aharon.
2. Moshe wrote their goings out according to their journeys by the commandment of YHWH: and these are their journeys according to their goings out.
3. They traveled from Rameses in the first month, on the fifteenth day of the first month; on the next day after the Passover the children of Israel went out with a high hand in the sight of all the Egyptians,
4. while the Egyptians were burying all their firstborn, whom YHWH had struck among them: on their gods also YHWH executed judgments.
5. The children of Israel traveled from Rameses, and encamped in Succoth.
6. They traveled from Succoth, and encamped in Etham, which is in the edge of the wilderness.
7. They traveled from Etham, and turned back to Pihahiroth, which is before Baal Zephon: and they encamped before Migdol.
8. They traveled from before Hahiroth, and passed through the midst of the sea into the wilderness: and they went three days' journey in the wilderness of Etham, and encamped in Marah.
9. They traveled from Marah, and came to Elim: and in Elim were twelve springs of water, and seventy palm trees; and they encamped there.
10. They traveled from Elim, and encamped by the Red Sea.
11. They traveled from the Red Sea, and encamped in the wilderness of Sin.
12. They traveled from the wilderness of Sin, and encamped in Dophkah.
13. They traveled from Dophkah, and encamped in Alush.
14. They traveled from Alush, and encamped in Rephidim, where was no water for the people to drink.
15. They traveled from Rephidim, and encamped in the wilderness of Sinai.
16. They traveled from the wilderness of Sinai, and encamped in Kibroth Hattaavah.
17. They traveled from Kibroth Hattaavah, and encamped in Hazeroth.
18. They traveled from Hazeroth, and encamped in Rithmah.
19. They traveled from Rithmah, and encamped in Rimmon Perez.
20. They traveled from Rimmon Perez, and encamped in Libnah.
21. They traveled from Libnah, and encamped in Rissah.
22. They traveled from Rissah, and encamped in Kehelathah.
23. They traveled from Kehelathah, and encamped in Mount Shepher.
24. They traveled from Mount Shepher, and encamped in Haradah.
25. They traveled from Haradah, and encamped in Makheloth.
26. They traveled from Makheloth, and encamped in Tahath.
27. They traveled from Tahath, and encamped in Terah.
28. They traveled from Terah, and encamped in Mithkah.
29. They traveled from Mithkah, and encamped in Hashmonah.
30. They traveled from Hashmonah, and encamped in Moseroth.
31. They traveled from Moseroth, and encamped in Bene Jaakan.
32. They traveled from Bene Jaakan, and encamped in Hor Haggidgad.
33. They traveled from Hor Haggidgad, and encamped in Jotbathah.
34. They traveled from Jotbathah, and encamped in Abronah.
35. They traveled from Abronah, and encamped in Ezion Geber.
36. They traveled from Ezion Geber, and encamped in the wilderness of Zin (the same is Kadesh).
37. They traveled from Kadesh, and encamped in Mount Hor, in the edge of the land of Edom.
38. Aharon the priest went up into Mount Hor at the commandment of YHWH, and died there, in the fortieth year after the children of Israel were come out of the land of Mitzrayim, in the fifth month, on the first day of the month.
39. Aharon was one hundred twenty-three years old when he died in Mount Hor.
40. The Canaanite, the king of Arad, who lived in the South in the land of Canaan, heard of the coming of the children of Israel.
41. They traveled from Mount Hor, and encamped in Zalmonah.
42. They traveled from Zalmonah, and encamped in Punon.
43. They traveled from Punon, and encamped in Oboth.
44. They traveled from Oboth, and encamped in Iye Abarim, in the border of Moab.
45. They traveled from Iyim, and encamped in Dibon Gad.
46. They traveled from Dibon Gad, and encamped in Almon Diblathaim.
47. They traveled from Almon Diblathaim, and encamped in the mountains of Abarim, before Nebo.
48. They traveled from the mountains of Abarim, and encamped in the plains of Moab by the Yarden at Yericho.
49. They encamped by the Yarden, from Beth Jeshimoth even to Abel Shittim in the plains of Moab.
50. YHWH spoke to Moshe in the plains of Moab by the Yarden at Yericho, saying,
51. Speak to the children of Israel, and tell them, When you pass over the Yarden into the land of Canaan,
52. then you shall drive out all the inhabitants of the land from before you, and destroy all their figured [stones], and destroy all their molten images, and demolish all their high places:
53. and you shall take possession of the land, and dwell therein; for to you have I given the land to possess it.
54. You shall inherit the land by lot according to your families; to the more you shall give the more inheritance, and to the fewer you shall give the less inheritance: wherever the lot falls to anyone, that shall be their; according to the tribes of your fathers shall you inherit.
55. But if you will not drive out the inhabitants of the land from before you, then shall those who you let remain of them be as pricks in your eyes, and as thorns in your sides, and they shall vex you in the land in which you dwell.
56. It shall happen that as I thought to do to them, so will I do to you.

Numbers 34
1. YHWH spoke to Moshe, saying,
2. Command the children of Israel, and tell them, When you come into the land of Canaan (this is the land that shall fall to you for an inheritance, even the land of Canaan according to the borders of it),
3. then your south quarter shall be from the wilderness of Zin along by the side of Edom, and your south border shall be from the end of the Salt Sea eastward;
4. and your border shall turn about southward of the ascent of Akrabbim, and pass along to Zin; and the goings out of it shall be southward of Kadesh Barnea; and it shall go forth to Hazar Addar, and pass along to Azmon;
5. and the border shall turn about from Azmon to the brook of Mitzrayim, and the goings out of it shall be at the sea.
6. For the western border, you shall have the great sea and the border [of it]: this shall be your west border.
7. This shall be your north border: from the great sea you shall mark out for you Mount Hor;
8. from Mount Hor you shall mark out to the entrance of Hamath; and the goings out of the border shall be at Zedad;
9. and the border shall go forth to Ziphron, and the goings out of it shall be at Hazar Enan: this shall be your north border.
10. You shall mark out your east border from Hazar Enan to Shepham;
11. and the border shall go down from Shepham to Riblah, on the east side of Ain; and the border shall go down, and shall reach to the side of the sea of Chinnereth eastward;
12. and the border shall go down to the Yarden, and the goings out of it shall be at the Salt Sea. This shall be your land according to the borders of it round about.
13. Moshe commanded the children of Israel, saying, This is the land which you shall inherit by lot, which YHWH has commanded to give to the nine tribes, and to the half-tribe;
14. for the tribe of the children of Reuven according to their fathers' houses, and the tribe of the children of Gad according to their fathers' houses, have received, and the half-tribe of Menashe have received, their inheritance:
15. the two tribes and the half-tribe have received their inheritance beyond the Yarden at Yericho eastward, toward the sunrise.
16. YHWH spoke to Moshe, saying,
17. These are the names of the people who shall divide the land to you for inheritance: Eleazar the priest, and Yehoshua the son of Nun.
18. You shall take one prince of every tribe, to divide the land for inheritance.
19. These are the names of the men: Of the tribe of Yehudah, Kalev the son of Jephunneh.
20. Of the tribe of the children of Shim'on, Shemuel the son of Ammihud.
21. Of the tribe of Binyamin, Elidad the son of Chislon.
22. Of the tribe of the children of Dan a prince, Bukki the son of Jogli.
23. Of the children of Yosef: of the tribe of the children of Menashe a prince, Hanniel the son of Ephod.
24. Of the tribe of the children of Efrayim a prince, Kemuel the son of Shiphtan.
25. Of the tribe of the children of Zevulun a prince, Elizaphan the son of Parnach.
26. Of the tribe of the children of Yissakhar a prince, Paltiel the son of Azzan.
27. Of the tribe of the children of Asher a prince, Ahihud the son of Shelomi.
28. Of the tribe of the children of Naphtali a prince, Pedahel the son of Ammihud.
29. These are they whom YHWH commanded to divide the inheritance to the children of Israel in the land of Canaan.

Numbers 35
1. YHWH spoke to Moshe in the plains of Moab by the Yarden at Yericho, saying,
2. Command the children of Israel that they give to the Levites of the inheritance of their possession cities to dwell in; and suburbs for the cities round about them shall you give to the Levites.
3. The cities shall they have to dwell in; and their suburbs shall be for their livestock, and for their substance, and for all their animals.
4. The suburbs of the cities, which you shall give to the Levites, shall be from the wall of the city and outward one thousand cubits round about.
5. You shall measure outside of the city for the east side two thousand cubits, and for the south side two thousand cubits, and for the west side two thousand cubits, and for the north side two thousand cubits, the city being in the midst. This shall be to them the suburbs of the cities.
6. The cities which you shall give to the Levites, they shall be the six cities of refuge, which you shall give for the manslayer to flee to: and besides them you shall give forty-two cities.
7. All the cities which you shall give to the Levites shall be forty-eight cities; them [shall you give] with their suburbs.
8. Concerning the cities which you shall give of the possession of the children of Israel, from the many you shall take many; and from the few you shall take few: everyone according to their inheritance which they inherits shall give of their cities to the Levites.
9. YHWH spoke to Moshe, saying,
10. Speak to the children of Israel, and tell them, When you pass over the Yarden into the land of Canaan,
11. then you shall appoint you cities to be cities of refuge for you, that the manslayer who kills any person unwittingly may flee there.
12. The cities shall be to you for refuge from the avenger, that the manslayer not die, until he stands before the congregation for judgment.
13. The cities which you shall give shall be for you six cities of refuge.
14. You shall give three cities beyond the Yarden, and three cities shall you give in the land of Canaan; they shall be cities of refuge.
15. For the children of Israel, and for the stranger and for the foreigner living among them, shall these six cities be for refuge; that everyone who kills any person unwittingly may flee there.
16. But if he struck him with an instrument of iron, so that he died, he is a murderer: the murderer shall surely be put to death.
17. If they struck him with a stone in the hand, by which a person may die, and they died, they are a murderer: the murderer shall surely be put to death.
18. Or if they struck him with a weapon of wood in the hand, by which a person may die, and they died, they are a murderer: the murderer shall surely be put to death.
19. The avenger of blood shall himself put the murderer to death: when he meets him, he shall put him to death.
20. If he thrust him of hatred, or hurled at him, lying in wait, so that he died,
21. or in enmity struck him with his hand, so that he died; the one who struck him shall surely be put to death; he is a murderer: the avenger of blood shall put the murderer to death, when he meets him.
22. But if he thrust him suddenly without enmity, or hurled on him anything without lying in wait,
23. or with any stone, by which a person may die, not seeing him, and cast it on him, so that they died, and they were not their enemy, neither sought their harm;
24. then the congregation shall judge between the striker and the avenger of blood according to these ordinances;
25. and the congregation shall deliver the manslayer out of the hand of the avenger of blood, and the congregation shall restore him to his city of refuge, where he was fled: and he shall dwell therein until the death of the high priest, who was anointed with the holy oil.
26. But if the manslayer shall at any time go beyond the border of his city of refuge, where he flees,
27. and the avenger of blood find him outside of the border of his city of refuge, and the avenger of blood kill the manslayer; he shall not be guilty of blood,
28. because he should have remained in his city of refuge until the death of the high priest: but after the death of the high priest the manslayer shall return into the land of his possession.
29. These things shall be for a statute [and] ordinance to you throughout your generations in all your dwellings.
30. Whoever kills any person, the murderer shall be slain at the mouth of witnesses: but one witness shall not testify against any person that they die.
31. Moreover you shall take no ransom for the life of a murderer who is guilty of death; but he shall surely be put to death.
32. You shall take no ransom for the one who is fled to their city of refuge, that they may come again to dwell in the land, until the death of the priest.
33. So you shall not pollute the land in which you are: for blood, it pollutes the land; and no expiation can be made for the land for the blood that is shed therein, but by the blood of the one who shed it.
34. You shall not defile the land which you inhabit, in the midst of which I dwell: for I, YHWH, dwell in the midst of the children of Israel.

Numbers 36
1. The heads of the fathers' [houses] of the family of the children of Gilead, the son of Machir, the son of Menashe, of the families of the sons of Yosef, came near, and spoke before Moshe, and before the princes, the heads of the fathers' [houses] of the children of Israel:
2. and they said, YHWH commanded my lord to give the land for inheritance by lot to the children of Israel: and my lord was commanded by YHWH to give the inheritance of Zelophehad our brother to his daughters.
3. If they be married to any of the sons of the [other] tribes of the children of Israel, then will their inheritance be taken away from the inheritance of our fathers, and will be added to the inheritance of the tribe whereunto they shall belong: so will it be taken away from the lot of our inheritance.
4. When the jubilee of the children of Israel shall be, then will their inheritance be added to the inheritance of the tribe whereunto they shall belong: so will their inheritance be taken away from the inheritance of the tribe of our fathers.
5. Moshe commanded the children of Israel according to the word of YHWH, saying, The tribe of the sons of Yosef speaks right.
6. This is the thing which YHWH does command concerning the daughters of Zelophehad, saying, Let them be married to whom they think best; only into the family of the tribe of their father shall they be married.
7. So shall no inheritance of the children of Israel remove from tribe to tribe; for the children of Israel shall cleave everyone to the inheritance of the tribe of their fathers.
8. Every daughter, who possesses an inheritance in any tribe of the children of Israel, shall be wife to one of the family of the tribe of her father, that the children of Israel may possess everyone the inheritance of their fathers.
9. So shall no inheritance remove from one tribe to another tribe; for the tribes of the children of Israel shall cleave everyone to their own inheritance.
10. Even as YHWH commanded Moshe, so did the daughters of Zelophehad:
11. for Mahlah, Tirzah, and Hoglah, and Milcah, and Noah, the daughters of Zelophehad, were married to their father's brothers' sons.
12. They were married into the families of the sons of Menashe the son of Yosef; and their inheritance remained in the tribe of the family of their father.
13. These are the commandments and the ordinances which YHWH commanded by Moshe to the children of Israel in the plains of Moab by the Yarden at Yericho.

Deuteronomy 1
1. These are the words which Moshe spoke to all Israel beyond the Yarden in the wilderness, in the Arabah over against Suph, between Paran, and Tophel, and Laban, and Hazeroth, and Dizahab.
2. It is eleven days' [journey] from Horeb by the way of Mount Seir to Kadesh Barnea.
3. It happened in the fortieth year, in the eleventh month, on the first day of the month, that Moshe spoke to the children of Israel, according to all that YHWH had given him in commandment to them;
4. after he had struck Sihon the king of the Amorites, who lived in Heshbon, and Og the king of Bashan, who lived in Ashtaroth, at Edrei.
5. Beyond the Yarden, in the land of Moab, began Moshe to declare this law, saying,
6. YHWH our God spoke to us in Horeb, saying, You have lived long enough in this mountain:
7. turn, and take your journey, and go to the hill country of the Amorites, and to all [the places] near there, in the Arabah, in the hill country, and in the lowland, and in the South, and by the seashore, the land of the Canaanites, and Levanon, as far as the great river, the river Perat.
8. Behold, I have set the land before you: go in and possess the land which YHWH swore to your fathers, to Avraham, to Yitzhak, and to Ya'akov, to give to them and to their seed after them.
9. I spoke to you at that time, saying, I am not able to bear you myself alone:
10. YHWH your God has multiplied you, and behold, you are this day as the stars of the heavens for multitude.
11. YHWH, the God of your fathers, make you a thousand times as many as you are, and bless you, as he has promised you!
12. How can I myself alone bear your encumbrance, and your burden, and your strife?
13. Take wise people of understanding and well known according to your tribes, and I will make them heads over you.
14. You answered me, and said, The thing which you have spoken is good [for us] to do.
15. So I took the heads of your tribes, wise people, and known, and made them heads over you, captains of thousands, and captains of hundreds, and captains of fifties, and captains of tens, and officers, according to your tribes.
16. I charged your judges at that time, saying, Hear [the causes] between your brothers, and judge righteously between a person and their brother, and the foreigner who is living with him.
17. You shall not show partiality in judgment; you shall hear the small and the great alike; you shall not be afraid of the face of man; for the judgment is Elohim's: and the cause that is too hard for you, you shall bring to me, and I will hear it.
18. I commanded you at that time all the things which you should do.
19. We traveled from Horeb, and went through all that great and terrible wilderness which you saw, by the way to the hill country of the Amorites, as YHWH our God commanded us; and we came to Kadesh Barnea.
20. I said to you, You are come to the hill country of the Amorites, which YHWH our God gives to us.
21. Behold, YHWH your God has set the land before you: go up, take possession, as YHWH, the God of your fathers, has spoken to you; don't be afraid, neither be dismayed.
22. You came near to me everyone of you, and said, Let us send men before us, that they may search the land for us, and bring us word again of the way by which we must go up, and the cities to which we shall come.
23. The thing pleased me well; and I took twelve men of you, one man for every tribe:
24. and they turned and went up into the hill country, and came to the valley of Eshcol, and spied it out.
25. They took of the fruit of the land in their hands, and brought it down to us, and brought us word again, and said, It is a good land which YHWH our God gives to us.
26. Yet you wouldn't go up, but rebelled against the commandment of YHWH your God:
27. and you murmured in your tents, and said, Because YHWH hated us, he has brought us forth out of the land of Mitzrayim, to deliver us into the hand of the Amorites, to destroy us.
28. Where are we going up? our brothers have made our heart to melt, saying, The people are greater and taller than we; the cities are great and fortified up to the heavens; and moreover we have seen the sons of the Anakim there.
29. Then I said to you, Don't dread, neither be afraid of them.
30. YHWH your God who goes before you, he will fight for you, according to all that he did for you in Mitzrayim before your eyes,
31. and in the wilderness, where you have seen how that YHWH your God bore you, as a person does bear their son, in all the way that you went, until you came to this place.
32. Yet in this thing you didn't believe YHWH your God,
33. who went before you in the way, to seek you out a place to pitch your tents in, in fire by night, to show you by what way you should go, and in the cloud by day.
34. YHWH heard the voice of your words, and was angry, and swore, saying,
35. Surely there shall not one of these men of this broken generation see the good land, which I swore to give to your fathers,
36. save Kalev the son of Jephunneh: he shall see it; and to him will I give the land that he has trodden on, and to his children, because he has wholly followed YHWH.
37. Also YHWH was angry with me for your sakes, saying, You also shall not go in there:
38. Yehoshua the son of Nun, who stands before you, he shall go in there: encourage you him; for he shall cause Israel to inherit it.
39. Moreover your little ones, whom you said should be a prey, and your children, who this day have no knowledge of good or brokenness, they shall go in there, and to them will I give it, and they shall possess it.
40. But as for you, turn you, and take your journey into the wilderness by the way to the Red Sea.
41. Then you answered and said to me, We have sinned against YHWH, we will go up and fight, according to all that YHWH our God commanded us. You girded on everyone their weapons of war, and were forward to go up into the hill country.
42. YHWH said to me, Tell them, Don't go up, neither fight; for I am not among you; lest you be struck before your enemies.
43. So I spoke to you, and you didn't listen; but you rebelled against the commandment of YHWH, and were presumptuous, and went up into the hill country.
44. The Amorites, who lived in that hill country, came out against you, and chased you, as bees do, and beat you down in Seir, even to Hormah.
45. You returned and wept before YHWH; but YHWH didn't listen to your voice, nor gave ear to you.
46. So you abode in Kadesh many days, according to the days that you abode [there].

Deuteronomy 2
1. Then we turned, and took our journey into the wilderness by the way to the Red Sea, as YHWH spoke to me; and we compassed Mount Seir many days.
2. YHWH spoke to me, saying,
3. You have compassed this mountain long enough: turn you northward.
4. Command you the people, saying, You are to pass through the border of your brothers the children of Esav, who dwell in Seir; and they will be afraid of you: take good heed to yourselves therefore;
5. don't contend with them; for I will not give you of their land, no, not so much as for the sole of the foot to tread on; because I have given Mount Seir to Esav for a possession.
6. You shall purchase food of them for money, that you may eat; and you shall also buy water of them for money, that you may drink.
7. For YHWH your God has blessed you in all the work of your hand; he has known your walking through this great wilderness: these forty years YHWH your God has been with you; you have lacked nothing.
8. So we passed by from our brothers the children of Esav, who dwell in Seir, from the way of the Arabah from Elath and from Ezion Geber. We turned and passed by the way of the wilderness of Moab.
9. YHWH said to me, Don't bother Moab, neither contend with them in battle; for I will not give you of his land for a possession; because I have given Ar to the children of Lot for a possession.
10. (The Emim lived therein before, a people great, and many, and tall, as the Anakim:
11. these also are accounted Rephaim, as the Anakim; but the Moabites call them Emim.
12. The Horites also lived in Seir before, but the children of Esav succeeded them; and they destroyed them from before them, and lived in their place; as Israel did to the land of his possession, which YHWH gave to them.)
13. Now rise up, and get you over the brook Zered. We went over the brook Zered.
14. The days in which we came from Kadesh Barnea, until we were come over the brook Zered, were thirty-eight years; until all the generation of the men of war were consumed from the midst of the camp, as YHWH swore to them.
15. Moreover the hand of YHWH was against them, to destroy them from the midst of the camp, until they were consumed.
16. So it happened, when all the men of war were consumed and dead from among the people,
17. that YHWH spoke to me, saying,
18. You are this day to pass over Ar, the border of Moab:
19. and when you come near over against the children of Ammon, don't bother them, nor contend with them; for I will not give you of the land of the children of Ammon for a possession; because I have given it to the children of Lot for a possession.
20. (That also is accounted a land of Rephaim: Rephaim lived therein before; but the Ammonites call them Zamzummim,
21. a people great, and many, and tall, as the Anakim; but YHWH destroyed them before them; and they succeeded them, and lived in their place;
22. as he did for the children of Esav, who dwell in Seir, when he destroyed the Horites from before them; and they succeeded them, and lived in their place even to this day:
23. and the Avvim, who lived in villages as far as Azzah, the Caphtorim, who came forth out of Caphtor, destroyed them, and lived in their place.)
24. Rise up, take your journey, and pass over the valley of the Arnon: behold, I have given into your hand Sihon the Amorite, king of Heshbon, and his land; begin to possess it, and contend with him in battle.
25. This day will I begin to put the dread of you and the fear of you on the peoples who are under the whole heavens, who shall hear the report of you, and shall tremble, and be in anguish because of you.
26. I sent messengers out of the wilderness of Kedemoth to Sihon king of Heshbon with words of peace, saying,
27. Let me pass through your land: I will go along by the highway, I will turn neither to the right hand nor to the left.
28. You shall sell me food for money, that I may eat; and give me water for money, that I may drink: only let me pass through on my feet,
29. as the children of Esav who dwell in Seir, and the Moabites who dwell in Ar, did to me; until I shall pass over the Yarden into the land which YHWH our God gives us.
30. But Sihon king of Heshbon would not let us pass by him; for YHWH your God hardened his spirit, and made his heart obstinate, that he might deliver him into your hand, as at this day.
31. YHWH said to me, Behold, I have begun to deliver up Sihon and his land before you: begin to possess, that you may inherit his land.
32. Then Sihon came out against us, he and all his people, to battle at Jahaz.
33. YHWH our God delivered him up before us; and we struck him, and his sons, and all his people.
34. We took all his cities at that time, and utterly destroyed every inhabited city, with the women and the little ones; we left none remaining:
35. only the livestock we took for a prey to ourselves, with the spoil of the cities which we had taken.
36. From Aroer, which is on the edge of the valley of the Arnon, and [from] the city that is in the valley, even to Gilead, there was not a city too high for us; YHWH our God delivered up all before us:
37. only to the land of the children of Ammon you didn't come near; all the side of the river Jabbok, and the cities of the hill country, and wherever YHWH our God forbade us.

Deuteronomy 3
1. Then we turned, and went up the way to Bashan: and Og the king of Bashan came out against us, he and all his people, to battle at Edrei.
2. YHWH said to me, Don't fear him; for I have delivered him, and all his people, and his land, into your hand; and you shall do to him as you did to Sihon king of the Amorites, who lived at Heshbon.
3. So YHWH our God delivered into our hand Og also, the king of Bashan, and all his people: and we struck him until none was left to him remaining.
4. We took all his cities at that time; there was not a city which we didn't take from them; sixty cities, all the region of Argob, the kingdom of Og in Bashan.
5. All these were cities fortified with high walls, gates, and bars; besides the unwalled towns a great many.
6. We utterly destroyed them, as we did to Sihon king of Heshbon, utterly destroying every inhabited city, with the women and the little ones.
7. But all the livestock, and the spoil of the cities, we took for a prey to ourselves.
8. We took the land at that time out of the hand of the two kings of the Amorites who were beyond the Yarden, from the valley of the Arnon to Mount Hermon;
9. ([which] Hermon the Sidonians call Sirion, and the Amorites call it Senir;)
10. all the cities of the plain, and all Gilead, and all Bashan, to Salecah and Edrei, cities of the kingdom of Og in Bashan.
11. (For only Og king of Bashan remained of the remnant of the Rephaim; behold, his bedstead was a bedstead of iron; isn't it in Rabbah of the children of Ammon? nine cubits was the length of it, and four cubits the breadth of it, after the cubit of a person.)
12. This land we took in possession at that time: from Aroer, which is by the valley of the Arnon, and half the hill country of Gilead, and the cities of it, gave I to the Reubenites and to the Gadites:
13. and the rest of Gilead, and all Bashan, the kingdom of Og, gave I to the half-tribe of Menashe; all the region of Argob, even all Bashan. (The same is called the land of Rephaim.
14. Jair the son of Menashe took all the region of Argob, to the border of the Geshurites and the Maacathites, and called them, even Bashan, after his own name, Havvoth Jair, to this day.)
15. I gave Gilead to Machir.
16. To the Reubenites and to the Gadites I gave from Gilead even to the valley of the Arnon, the middle of the valley, and the border [of it], even to the river Jabbok, which is the border of the children of Ammon;
17. the Arabah also, and the Yarden and the border [of it], from Chinnereth even to the sea of the Arabah, the Salt Sea, under the slopes of Pisgah eastward.
18. I commanded you at that time, saying, YHWH your God has given you this land to possess it: you shall pass over armed before your brothers the children of Israel, all the men of valor.
19. But your wives, and your little ones, and your livestock, (I know that you have much livestock), shall abide in your cities which I have given you,
20. until YHWH give rest to your brothers, as to you, and they also possess the land which YHWH your God gives them beyond the Yarden: then shall you return everyone to their possession, which I have given you.
21. I commanded Yehoshua at that time, saying, Your eyes have seen all that YHWH your God has done to these two kings: so shall YHWH do to all the kingdoms where you go over.
22. You shall not fear them; for YHWH your God, he it is who fights for you.
23. I begged YHWH at that time, saying,
24. YHWH God, you have begun to show your servant your greatness, and your strong hand: for what god is there in heavens or in earth, that can do according to your works, and according to your mighty acts?
25. Please let me go over and see the good land that is beyond the Yarden, that goodly mountain, and Levanon.
26. But YHWH was angry with me for your sakes, and didn't listen to me; and YHWH said to me, Let it suffice you; speak no more to me of this matter.
27. Go up to the top of Pisgah, and lift up your eyes westward, and northward, and southward, and eastward, and see with your eyes: for you shall not go over this Yarden.
28. But charge Yehoshua, and encourage him, and strengthen him; for he shall go over before this people, and he shall cause them to inherit the land which you shall see.
29. So we abode in the valley over against Beth Peor.

Deuteronomy 4
1. Now, Israel, listen to the statutes and to the ordinances, which I teach you, to do them; that you may live, and go in and possess the land which YHWH, the God of your fathers, gives you.
2. You shall not add to the word which I command you, neither shall you diminish from it, that you may keep the commandments of YHWH your God which I command you.
3. Your eyes have seen what YHWH did because of Baal Peor; for all the people who followed Baal Peor, YHWH your God has destroyed them from the midst of you.
4. But you who did cleave to YHWH your God are alive everyone of you this day.
5. Behold, I have taught you statutes and ordinances, even as YHWH my God commanded me, that you should do so in the midst of the land where you go in to possess it.
6. Keep therefore and do them; for this is your wisdom and your understanding in the sight of the peoples, who shall hear all these statutes, and say, Surely this great nation is a wise and understanding people.
7. For what great nation is there, that has a god so near to them, as YHWH our God is whenever we call on him?
8. What great nation is there, that has statutes and ordinances so righteous as all this law, which I set before you this day?
9. Only take heed to yourself, and keep your soul diligently, lest you forget the things which your eyes saw, and lest they depart from your heart all the days of your life; but make them known to your children and your children's children;
10. the day that you stood before YHWH your God in Horeb, when YHWH said to me, Assemble me the people, and I will make them hear my words, that they may learn to revere me all the days that they live on the earth, and that they may teach their children.
11. You came near and stood under the mountain; and the mountain burned with fire to the heart of the heavens, with darkness, cloud, and thick darkness.
12. YHWH spoke to you out of the midst of the fire: you heard the voice of words, but you saw no form; only [you heard] a voice.
13. He declared to you his covenant, which he commanded you to perform, even the ten commandments; and he wrote them on two tables of stone.
14. YHWH commanded me at that time to teach you statutes and ordinances, that you might do them in the land where you go over to possess it.
15. Take therefore good heed to yourselves; for you saw no manner of form on the day that YHWH spoke to you in Horeb out of the midst of the fire.
16. Lest you corrupt yourselves, and make yourself an engraved image in the form of any figure, the likeness of male or female,
17. the likeness of any animal that is on the earth, the likeness of any winged bird that flies in the heavens,
18. the likeness of anything that creeps on the ground, the likeness of any fish that is in the water under the earth;
19. and lest you lift up your eyes to the heavens, and when you see the sun and the moon and the stars, even all the army of the heavens, you are drawn away and worship them, and serve them, which YHWH your God has allotted to all the peoples under the whole heavens.
20. But YHWH has taken you, and brought you forth out of the iron furnace, out of Mitzrayim, to be to him a people of inheritance, as at this day.
21. Furthermore YHWH was angry with me for your sakes, and swore that I should not go over the Yarden, and that I should not go in to that good land, which YHWH your God gives you for an inheritance:
22. but I must die in this land, I must not go over the Yarden; but you shall go over, and possess that good land.
23. Take heed to yourselves, lest you forget the covenant of YHWH your God, which he made with you, and make you an engraved image in the form of anything which YHWH your God has forbidden you.
24. For YHWH your God is a devouring fire, a jealous Elohim.
25. When you shall father children, and children's children, and you shall have been long in the land, and shall corrupt yourselves, and make an engraved image in the form of anything, and shall do that which is brokenness in the sight of YHWH your God, to provoke him to anger;
26. I call heavens and earth to witness against you this day, that you shall soon utterly perish from off the land whereunto you go over the Yarden to possess it; you shall not prolong your days on it, but shall utterly be destroyed.
27. YHWH will scatter you among the peoples, and you shall be left few in number among the nations, where YHWH shall lead you away.
28. There you shall serve gods, the work of people's hands, wood and stone, which neither see, nor hear, nor eat, nor smell.
29. But from there you shall seek YHWH your God, and you shall find him, when you search after him with all your heart and with all your soul.
30. When you are in oppression, and all these things are come on you, in the latter days you shall return to YHWH your God, and listen to his voice:
31. for YHWH your God is a merciful Elohim; he will not fail you, neither destroy you, nor forget the covenant of your fathers which he swore to them.
32. For ask now of the days that are past, which were before you, since the day that Elohim created man on the earth, and from the one end of the heavens to the other, whether there has been [any such thing] as this great thing is, or has been heard like it?
33. Did ever a people hear the voice of Elohim speaking out of the midst of the fire, as you have heard, and live?
34. Or has Elohim tried to go and take him a nation from the midst of [another] nation, by trials, by signs, and by wonders, and by war, and by a mighty hand, and by an outstretched arm, and by great terrors, according to all that YHWH your God did for you in Mitzrayim before your eyes?
35. To you it was shown, that you might know that YHWH he is Elohim; there is none else besides him.
36. Out of heavens he made you to hear his voice, that he might instruct you: and on earth he made you to see his great fire; and you heard his words out of the midst of the fire.
37. Because he loved your fathers, therefore he chose their seed after them, and brought you out with his presence, with his great power, out of Mitzrayim;
38. to drive out nations from before you greater and mightier than you, to bring you in, to give you their land for an inheritance, as at this day.
39. Know therefore this day, and lay it to your heart, that YHWH he is Elohim in heavens above and on the earth beneath; there is none else.
40. You shall keep his statutes, and his commandments, which I command you this day, that it may go well with you, and with your children after you, and that you may prolong your days in the land, which YHWH your God gives you, forever.
41. Then Moshe set apart three cities beyond the Yarden toward the sunrise;
42. that the manslayer might flee there, who kills his neighbor unawares, and didn't hate him in time past; and that fleeing to one of these cities he might live:
43. [namely], Bezer in the wilderness, in the plain country, for the Reubenites; and Ramoth in Gilead, for the Gadites; and Golan in Bashan, for the Manassites.
44. This is the law which Moshe set before the children of Israel:
45. these are the testimonies, and the statutes, and the ordinances, which Moshe spoke to the children of Israel, when they came forth out of Mitzrayim,
46. beyond the Yarden, in the valley over against Beth Peor, in the land of Sihon king of the Amorites, who lived at Heshbon, whom Moshe and the children of Israel struck, when they came forth out of Mitzrayim.
47. They took his land in possession, and the land of Og king of Bashan, the two kings of the Amorites, who were beyond the Yarden toward the sunrise;
48. from Aroer, which is on the edge of the valley of the Arnon, even to Mount Sion (the same is Hermon),
49. and all the Arabah beyond the Yarden eastward, even to the sea of the Arabah, under the slopes of Pisgah.

Deuteronomy 5
1. Moshe called to all Israel, and said to them, Hear, Israel, the statutes and the ordinances which I speak in your ears this day, that you may learn them, and observe to do them.
2. YHWH our God made a covenant with us in Horeb.
3. YHWH didn't make this covenant with our fathers, but with us, even us, who are all of us here alive this day.
4. YHWH spoke with you face to face on the mountain out of the midst of the fire,
5. (I stood between YHWH and you at that time, to show you the word of YHWH: for you were afraid because of the fire, and didn't go up onto the mountain;) saying,
6. "I am YHWH your God, who brought you out of the land of Mitzrayim, out of the house of bondage.
7. You shall have no other gods before me.
8. "You shall not make an engraved image for yourself, [nor] any likeness [of anything] that is in heavens above, or that is in the earth beneath, or that is in the water under the earth:
9. you shall not bow down yourself to them, nor serve them; for I, YHWH, your God, am a jealous Elohim, visiting the iniquity of the fathers on the children, and on the third and on the fourth generation of those who hate me;
10. and showing loving kindness to thousands of those who love me and keep my commandments.
11. "You shall not take the name of YHWH your God in vain: for YHWH will not hold him guiltless who takes his name in vain.
12. "Observe the Sabbath day, to keep it holy, as YHWH your God commanded you.
13. Six days shall you labor, and do all your work;
14. but the seventh day is a Sabbath to YHWH your God: [in it] you shall not do any work, you, nor your son, nor your daughter, nor your male servant, nor your female servant, nor your ox, nor your donkey, nor any of your livestock, nor your stranger who is within your gates; that your male servant and your female servant may rest as well as you.
15. You shall remember that you were a servant in the land of Mitzrayim, and YHWH your God brought you out of there by a mighty hand and by an outstretched arm: therefore YHWH your God commanded you to keep the Sabbath day.
16. "Honor your father and your mother, as YHWH your God commanded you; that your days may be long, and that it may go well with you, in the land which YHWH your God gives you.
17. "You shall not murder.
18. "Neither shall you commit adultery.
19. "Neither shall you steal.
20. "Neither shall you give false testimony against your neighbor.
21. "Neither shall you covet your neighbor's wife; neither shall you desire your neighbor's house, his field, or his male servant, or his female servant, his ox, or his donkey, or anything that is your neighbor's."
22. These words YHWH spoke to all your assembly on the mountain out of the midst of the fire, of the cloud, and of the thick darkness, with a great voice: and he added no more. He wrote them on two tables of stone, and gave them to me.
23. It happened, when you heard the voice out of the midst of the darkness, while the mountain was burning with fire, that you came near to me, even all the heads of your tribes, and your elders;
24. and you said, Behold, YHWH our God has shown us his glory and his greatness, and we have heard his voice out of the midst of the fire: we have seen this day that Elohim does speak with man, and he lives.
25. Now therefore why should we die? for this great fire will consume us: if we hear the voice of YHWH our God any more, then we shall die.
26. For who is there of all flesh, that has heard the voice of the living Elohim speaking out of the midst of the fire, as we have, and lived?
27. Go you near, and hear all that YHWH our God shall say: and speak you to us all that YHWH our God shall speak to you; and we will hear it, and do it.
28. YHWH heard the voice of your words, when you spoke to me; and YHWH said to me, I have heard the voice of the words of this people, which they have spoken to you: they have well said all that they have spoken.
29. Oh that there were such a heart in them, that they would revere me, and keep all my commandments always, that it might be well with them, and with their children forever!
30. Go tell them, Return you to your tents.
31. But as for you, stand you here by me, and I will speak to you all the commandment, and the statutes, and the ordinances, which you shall teach them, that they may do them in the land which I give them to possess it.
32. You shall observe to do therefore as YHWH your God has commanded you: you shall not turn aside to the right hand or to the left.
33. You shall walk in all the way which YHWH your God has commanded you, that you may live, and that it may be well with you, and that you may prolong your days in the land which you shall possess.

Deuteronomy 6
1. Now this is the commandment, the statutes, and the ordinances, which YHWH your God commanded to teach you, that you might do them in the land where you go over to possess it;
2. that you might revere YHWH your God, to keep all his statutes and his commandments, which I command you, you, and your son, and your son's son, all the days of your life; and that your days may be prolonged.
3. Hear therefore, Israel, and observe to do it; that it may be well with you, and that you may increase mightily, as YHWH, the God of your fathers, has promised to you, in a land flowing with milk and honey.
4. Hear, O Israel: YHWH is our God, YHWH is one.
5. and you shall love YHWH your God with all your heart, and with all your soul, and with all your might.
6. These words, which I command you this day, shall be on your heart;
7. and you shall teach them diligently to your children, and shall talk of them when you sit in your house, and when you walk by the way, and when you lie down, and when you rise up.
8. You shall bind them for a sign on your hand, and they shall be for symbols between your eyes.
9. You shall write them on the door posts of your house, and on your gates.
10. It shall be, when YHWH your God shall bring you into the land which he swore to your fathers, to Avraham, to Yitzhak, and to Ya'akov, to give you, great and goodly cities, which you didn't build,
11. and houses full of all good things, which you didn't fill, and cisterns dug out, which you didn't dig, vineyards and olive trees, which you didn't plant, and you shall eat and be full;
12. then beware lest you forget YHWH, who brought you forth out of the land of Mitzrayim, out of the house of bondage.
13. You shall revere YHWH your God; and him shall you serve, and shall swear by his name.
14. You shall not go after other gods, of the gods of the peoples who are round about you;
15. for YHWH your God in the midst of you is a jealous Elohim; lest the anger of YHWH your God be kindled against you, and he destroy you from off the face of the earth.
16. You shall not tempt YHWH your God, as you tempted him in Massah.
17. You shall diligently keep the commandments of YHWH your God, and his testimonies, and his statutes, which he has commanded you.
18. You shall do that which is right and good in the sight of YHWH; that it may be well with you, and that you may go in and possess the good land which YHWH swore to your fathers,
19. to thrust out all your enemies from before you, as YHWH has spoken.
20. When your son asks you in time to come, saying, What mean the testimonies, and the statutes, and the ordinances, which YHWH our God has commanded you?
21. then you shall tell your son, We were Pharaoh's bondservants in Mitzrayim: and YHWH brought us out of Mitzrayim with a mighty hand;
22. and YHWH showed great and awesome signs and wonders on Mitzrayim, on Pharaoh, and on all his house, before our eyes;
23. and he brought us out from there, that he might bring us in, to give us the land which he swore to our fathers.
24. YHWH commanded us to do all these statutes, to revere YHWH our God, for our good always, that he might preserve us alive, as at this day.
25. It shall be righteousness to us, if we observe to do all this commandment before YHWH our God, as he has commanded us.

Deuteronomy 7
1. When YHWH your God shall bring you into the land where you go to possess it, and shall cast out many nations before you, the Hittite, and the Girgashite, and the Amorite, and the Canaanite, and the Perizzite, and the Hivite, and the Jebusite, seven nations greater and mightier than you;
2. and when YHWH your God shall deliver them up before you, and you shall strike them; then you shall utterly destroy them: you shall make no covenant with them, nor show mercy to them;
3. neither shall you make marriages with them; your daughter you shall not give to his son, nor his daughter shall you take to your son.
4. For he will turn away your son from following me, that they may serve other gods: so will the anger of YHWH be kindled against you, and he will destroy you quickly.
5. But thus shall you deal with them: you shall break down their altars, and dash in pieces their pillars, and hew down their Asherim, and burn their engraved images with fire.
6. For you are a holy people to YHWH your God: YHWH your God has chosen you to be a people for his own possession, above all peoples who are on the face of the earth.
7. YHWH didn't set his love on you, nor choose you, because you were more in number than any people; for you were the fewest of all peoples:
8. but because YHWH loves you, and because he would keep the oath which he swore to your fathers, has YHWH brought you out with a mighty hand, and redeemed you out of the house of bondage, from the hand of Pharaoh king of Mitzrayim.
9. Know therefore that YHWH your God, he is Elohim, the faithful Elohim, who keeps covenant and loving kindness with them who love him and keep his commandments to a thousand generations,
10. and repays those who hate him to their face, to destroy them: they will not be slack to the one who hates him, they will repay him to their face.
11. You shall therefore keep the commandment, and the statutes, and the ordinances, which I command you this day, to do them.
12. It shall happen, because you listen to these ordinances, and keep and do them, that YHWH your God will keep with you the covenant and the loving kindness which he swore to your fathers:
13. and he will love you, and bless you, and multiply you; he will also bless the fruit of your body and the fruit of your ground, your grain and your new wine and your oil, the increase of your livestock and the young of your flock, in the land which he swore to your fathers to give you.
14. You shall be blessed above all peoples: there shall not be male or female barren among you, or among your livestock.
15. YHWH will take away from you all sickness; and none of the brokenness diseases of Mitzrayim, which you know, he will put on you, but will lay them on all those who hate you.
16. You shall consume all the peoples whom YHWH your God shall deliver to you; your eye shall not pity them: neither shall you serve their gods; for that will be a snare to you.
17. If you shall say in your heart, These nations are more than I; how can I dispossess them?
18. you shall not be afraid of them: you shall well remember what YHWH your God did to Pharaoh, and to all Mitzrayim;
19. the great trials which your eyes saw, and the signs, and the wonders, and the mighty hand, and the outstretched arm, by which YHWH your God brought you out: so shall YHWH your God do to all the peoples of whom you are afraid.
20. Moreover YHWH your God will send the hornet among them, until those who are left, and hide themselves, perish from before you.
21. You shall not be scared of them; for YHWH your God is in the midst of you, a great and awesome Elohim.
22. YHWH your God will cast out those nations before you by little and little: you may not consume them at once, lest the animals of the field increase on you.
23. But YHWH your God will deliver them up before you, and will confuse them with a great confusion, until they be destroyed.
24. They will deliver their kings into your hand, and you shall make their name to perish from under the heavens: there shall no one be able to stand before you, until you have destroyed them.
25. The engraved images of their gods shall you burn with fire: you shall not covet the silver or the gold that is on them, nor take it to you, lest you be snared therein; for it is an abomination to YHWH your God.
26. You shall not bring an abomination into your house, and become a devoted thing like it: you shall utterly detest it, and you shall utterly abhor it; for it is a devoted thing.

Deuteronomy 8
1. All the commandment which I command you this day shall you observe to do, that you may live, and multiply, and go in and possess the land which YHWH swore to your fathers.
2. You shall remember all the way which YHWH your God has led you these forty years in the wilderness, that he might humble you, to prove you, to know what was in your heart, whether you would keep his commandments, or not.
3. He humbled you, and allowed you to hunger, and fed you with manna, which you didn't know, neither did your fathers know; that they might make you know that a person does not live by bread only, but by everything that proceeds out of the mouth of YHWH does man live.
4. Your clothing didn't grow old on you, neither did your foot swell, these forty years.
5. You shall consider in your heart that as a person chastens their son, so YHWH your God chastens you.
6. You shall keep the commandments of YHWH your God, to walk in his ways, and to revere him.
7. For YHWH your God brings you into a good land, a land of brooks of water, of springs, and underground water flowing into valleys and hills;
8. a land of wheat and barley, and vines and fig trees and pomegranates; a land of olive trees and honey;
9. a land in which you shall eat bread without scarceness, you shall not lack anything in it; a land whose stones are iron, and out of whose hills you may dig copper.
10. You shall eat and be full, and you shall bless YHWH your God for the good land which he has given you.
11. Beware lest you forget YHWH your God, in not keeping his commandments, and his ordinances, and his statutes, which I command you this day:
12. lest, when you have eaten and are full, and have built goodly houses, and lived therein;
13. and when your herds and your flocks multiply, and your silver and your gold is multiplied, and all that you have is multiplied;
14. then your heart be lifted up, and you forget YHWH your God, who brought you forth out of the land of Mitzrayim, out of the house of bondage;
15. who led you through the great and terrible wilderness, [in which were] fiery serpents and scorpions, and thirsty ground where was no water; who brought you forth water out of the rock of flint;
16. who fed you in the wilderness with manna, which your fathers didn't know; that he might humble you, and that he might prove you, to do you good at your latter end:
17. and [lest] you say in your heart, My power and the might of my hand has gotten me this wealth.
18. But you shall remember YHWH your God, for it is the one who gives you power to get wealth; that he may establish his covenant which he swore to your fathers, as at this day.
19. It shall be, if you shall forget YHWH your God, and walk after other gods, and serve them, and worship them, I testify against you this day that you shall surely perish.
20. As the nations that YHWH makes to perish before you, so shall you perish; because you wouldn't listen to the voice of YHWH your God.

Deuteronomy 9
1. Hear, Israel: you are to pass over the Yarden this day, to go in to dispossess nations greater and mightier than yourself, cities great and fortified up to the heavens,
2. a people great and tall, the sons of the Anakim, whom you know, and of whom you have heard say, Who can stand before the sons of Anak?
3. Know therefore this day, that YHWH your God is the one who goes over before you as a devouring fire; he will destroy them, and he will bring them down before you: so shall you drive them out, and make them to perish quickly, as YHWH has spoken to you.
4. Don't speak in your heart, after that YHWH your God has thrust them out from before you, saying, For my righteousness YHWH has brought me in to possess this land; whereas for the wickedness of these nations YHWH does drive them out from before you.
5. Not for your righteousness, or for the uprightness of your heart, do you go in to possess their land; but for the wickedness of these nations YHWH your God does drive them out from before you, and that he may establish the word which YHWH swore to your fathers, to Avraham, to Yitzhak, and to Ya'akov.
6. Know therefore, that YHWH your God doesn't give you this good land to possess it for your righteousness; for you are a stiff-necked people.
7. Remember, don't forget, how you provoked YHWH your God to wrath in the wilderness: from the day that you went forth out of the land of Mitzrayim, until you came to this place, you have been rebellious against YHWH.
8. Also in Horeb you provoked YHWH to wrath, and YHWH was angry with you to destroy you.
9. When I was gone up onto the mountain to receive the tables of stone, even the tables of the covenant which YHWH made with you, then I stayed on the mountain forty days and forty nights; I did neither eat bread nor drink water.
10. YHWH delivered to me the two tables of stone written with the finger of Elohim; and on them [was written] according to all the words, which YHWH spoke with you on the mountain out of the midst of the fire in the day of the assembly.
11. It came to pass at the end of forty days and forty nights, that YHWH gave me the two tables of stone, even the tables of the covenant.
12. YHWH said to me, Arise, get you down quickly from hence; for your people whom you have brought forth out of Mitzrayim have corrupted themselves; they have quickly turned aside out of the way which I commanded them; they have made them a molten image.
13. Furthermore YHWH spoke to me, saying, I have seen this people, and behold, it is a stiff-necked people:
14. let me alone, that I may destroy them, and blot out their name from under the heavens; and I will make of you a nation mightier and greater than they.
15. So I turned and came down from the mountain, and the mountain was burning with fire: and the two tables of the covenant were in my two hands.
16. I looked, and behold, you had sinned against YHWH your God; you had made you a molten calf: you had turned aside quickly out of the way which YHWH had commanded you.
17. I took hold of the two tables, and cast them out of my two hands, and broke them before your eyes.
18. I fell down before YHWH, as at the first, forty days and forty nights; I did neither eat bread nor drink water; because of all your sin which you sinned, in doing what was broken in the sight of YHWH, to provoke him to anger.
19. For I was afraid of the anger and hot displeasure, with which YHWH was angry against you to destroy you. But YHWH listened to me that time also.
20. YHWH was very angry with Aharon to destroy him: and I prayed for Aharon also at the same time.
21. I took your sin, the calf which you had made, and burnt it with fire, and stamped it, grinding it very small, until it was as fine as dust: and I cast the dust of it into the brook that descended out of the mountain.
22. At Taberah, and at Massah, and at Kibroth Hattaavah, you provoked YHWH to wrath.
23. When YHWH sent you from Kadesh Barnea, saying, Go up and possess the land which I have given you; then you rebelled against the commandment of YHWH your God, and you didn't believe him, nor listen to his voice.
24. You have been rebellious against YHWH from the day that I knew you.
25. So I fell down before YHWH the forty days and forty nights that I fell down, because YHWH had said he would destroy you.
26. I prayed to YHWH, and said, YHWH God, don't destroy your people and your inheritance, that you have redeemed through your greatness, that you have brought forth out of Mitzrayim with a mighty hand.
27. Remember your servants, Avraham, Yitzhak, and Ya'akov; don't look to the stubbornness of this people, nor to their wickedness, nor to their sin,
28. lest the land whence you brought us out say, Because YHWH was not able to bring them into the land which he promised to them, and because he hated them, he has brought them out to kill them in the wilderness.
29. Yet they are your people and your inheritance, which you brought out by your great power and by your outstretched arm.

Deuteronomy 10
1. At that time YHWH said to me, Hew you two tables of stone like the first, and come up to me onto the mountain, and make an ark of wood.
2. I will write on the tables the words that were on the first tables which you broke, and you shall put them in the ark.
3. So I made an ark of acacia wood, and hewed two tables of stone like the first, and went up onto the mountain, having the two tables in my hand.
4. He wrote on the tables, according to the first writing, the ten commandments, which YHWH spoke to you on the mountain out of the midst of the fire in the day of the assembly: and YHWH gave them to me.
5. I turned and came down from the mountain, and put the tables in the ark which I had made; and there they are as YHWH commanded me.
6. (The children of Israel traveled from Beeroth Bene Jaakan to Moserah. There Aharon died, and there he was buried; and Eleazar his son ministered in the priest's office in his place.
7. From there they traveled to Gudgodah; and from Gudgodah to Jotbathah, a land of brooks of water.
8. At that time YHWH set apart the tribe of Levi, to bear the ark of the covenant of YHWH, to stand before YHWH to minister to him, and to bless in his name, to this day.
9. Therefore Levi has no portion nor inheritance with his brothers; YHWH is his inheritance, according as YHWH your God spoke to him.)
10. I stayed on the mountain, as at the first time, forty days and forty nights: and YHWH listened to me that time also; YHWH would not destroy you.
11. YHWH said to me, Arise, take your journey before the people; and they shall go in and possess the land, which I swore to their fathers to give to them.
12. Now, Israel, what does YHWH your God require of you, but to revere YHWH your God, to walk in all his ways, and to love him, and to serve YHWH your God with all your heart and with all your soul,
13. to keep the commandments of YHWH, and his statutes, which I command you this day for your good?
14. Behold, to YHWH your God belongs heavens and the heavens of heavens, the earth, with all that is therein.
15. Only YHWH had a delight in your fathers to love them, and he chose their seed after them, even you above all peoples, as at this day.
16. Circumcise therefore the foreskin of your heart, and be no more stiff-necked.
17. For YHWH your God, he is God of gods, and Sovereign over sovereigns, the great Elohim, the mighty, and the awesome, who doesn't regard persons, nor takes reward.
18. He does execute justice for the fatherless and widow, and loves the foreigner, in giving him food and clothing.
19. Therefore love the foreigner; for you were foreigners in the land of Mitzrayim.
20. You shall revere YHWH your God; him shall you serve; and to him shall you cleave, and by his name shall you swear.
21. He is your praise, and he is your God, who has done for you these great and awesome things, which your eyes have seen.
22. Your fathers went down into Mitzrayim with seventy persons; and now YHWH your God has made you as the stars of the heavens for multitude.

Deuteronomy 11
1. Therefore you shall love YHWH your God, and keep his charge, and his statutes, and his ordinances, and his commandments, always.
2. Know you this day: for I don't speak with your children who have not known, and who have not seen the chastisement of YHWH your God, his greatness, his mighty hand, and his outstretched arm,
3. and his signs, and his works, which he did in the midst of Mitzrayim to Pharaoh the king of Mitzrayim, and to all his land;
4. and what he did to the army of Mitzrayim, to their horses, and to their chariots; how he made the water of the Red Sea to overflow them as they pursued after you, and how YHWH has destroyed them to this day;
5. and what he did to you in the wilderness, until you came to this place;
6. and what he did to Dathan and Abiram, the sons of Eliab, the son of Reuven; how the earth opened its mouth, and swallowed them up, and their households, and their tents, and every living thing that followed them, in the midst of all Israel:
7. but your eyes have seen all the great work of YHWH which he did.
8. Therefore shall you keep all the commandment which I command you this day, that you may be strong, and go in and possess the land, where you go over to possess it;
9. and that you may prolong your days in the land, which YHWH swore to your fathers to give to them and to their seed, a land flowing with milk and honey.
10. For the land, where you go in to possess it, isn't as the land of Mitzrayim, from whence you came out, where you sowed your seed, and watered it with your foot, as a garden of herbs;
11. but the land, where you go over to possess it, is a land of hills and valleys, [and] drinks water of the rain of the heavens,
12. a land which YHWH your God cares for: the eyes of YHWH your God are always on it, from the beginning of the year even to the end of the year.
13. It shall happen, if you shall listen diligently to my commandments which I command you this day, to love YHWH your God, and to serve him with all your heart and with all your soul,
14. that I will give the rain of your land in its season, the former rain and the latter rain, that you may gather in your grain, and your new wine, and your oil.
15. I will give grass in your fields for your livestock, and you shall eat and be full.
16. Take heed to yourselves, lest your heart be deceived, and you turn aside, and serve other gods, and worship them;
17. and the anger of YHWH be kindled against you, and he shut up the heavens, so that there shall be no rain, and the land shall not yield its fruit; and you perish quickly from off the good land which YHWH gives you.
18. Therefore shall you lay up these my words in your heart and in your soul; and you shall bind them for a sign on your hand, and they shall be for symbols between your eyes.
19. You shall teach them your children, talking of them, when you sit in your house, and when you walk by the way, and when you lie down, and when you rise up.
20. You shall write them on the door posts of your house, and on your gates;
21. that your days may be multiplied, and the days of your children, in the land which YHWH swore to your fathers to give them, as the days of the heavens above the earth.
22. For if you shall diligently keep all this commandment which I command you, to do it, to love YHWH your God, to walk in all his ways, and to cleave to him;
23. then will YHWH drive out all these nations from before you, and you shall dispossess nations greater and mightier than yourselves.
24. Every place whereon the sole of your foot shall tread shall be yours: from the wilderness, and Levanon, from the river, the river Perat, even to the hinder sea shall be your border.
25. There shall no one be able to stand before you: YHWH your God shall lay the fear of you and the dread of you on all the land that you shall tread on, as they have spoken to you.
26. Behold, I set before you this day a blessing and a curse:
27. the blessing, if you shall listen to the commandments of YHWH your God, which I command you this day;
28. and the curse, if you shall not listen to the commandments of YHWH your God, but turn aside out of the way which I command you this day, to go after other gods, which you have not known.
29. It shall happen, when YHWH your God shall bring you into the land where you go to possess it, that you shall set the blessing on Mount Gerizim, and the curse on Mount Ebal.
30. Aren't they beyond the Yarden, behind the way of the going down of the sun, in the land of the Canaanites who dwell in the Arabah, over against Gilgal, beside the oaks of Moreh?
31. For you are to pass over the Yarden to go in to possess the land which YHWH your God gives you, and you shall possess it, and dwell therein.
32. You shall observe to do all the statutes and the ordinances which I set before you this day.

Deuteronomy 12
1. These are the statutes and the ordinances which you shall observe to do in the land which YHWH, the God of your fathers, has given you to possess it, all the days that you live on the earth.
2. You shall surely destroy all the places in which the nations that you shall dispossess served their gods, on the high mountains, and on the hills, and under every green tree:
3. and you shall break down their altars, and dash in pieces their pillars, and burn their Asherim with fire; and you shall cut down the engraved images of their gods; and you shall destroy their name out of that place.
4. You shall not do so to YHWH your God.
5. But to the place which YHWH your God shall choose out of all your tribes, to put his name there, even to his habitation shall you seek, and there you shall come;
6. and there you shall bring your burnt offerings, and your sacrifices, and your tithes, and the wave offering of your hand, and your vows, and your freewill offerings, and the firstborn of your herd and of your flock:
7. and there you shall eat before YHWH your God, and you shall rejoice in all that you put your hand to, you and your households, in which YHWH your God has blessed you.
8. You shall not do after all the things that we do here this day, everyone whatever is right in their own eyes;
9. for you haven't yet come to the rest and to the inheritance, which YHWH your God gives you.
10. But when you go over the Yarden, and dwell in the land which YHWH your God causes you to inherit, and he gives you rest from all your enemies round about, so that you dwell in safety;
11. then it shall happen that to the place which YHWH your God shall choose, to cause his name to dwell there, there shall you bring all that I command you: your burnt offerings, and your sacrifices, your tithes, and the wave offering of your hand, and all your choice vows which you vow to YHWH.
12. You shall rejoice before YHWH your God, you, and your sons, and your daughters, and your male servants, and your female servants, and the Levite who is within your gates, because he has no portion nor inheritance with you.
13. Take heed to yourself that you don't offer your burnt offerings in every place that you see;
14. but in the place which YHWH shall choose in one of your tribes, there you shall offer your burnt offerings, and there you shall do all that I command you.
15. Notwithstanding, you may kill and eat flesh within all your gates, after all the desire of your soul, according to the blessing of YHWH your God which he has given you: the unclean and the clean may eat of it, as of the gazelle, and as of the hart.
16. Only you shall not eat the blood; you shall pour it out on the earth as water.
17. You may not eat within your gates the tithe of your grain, or of your new wine, or of your oil, or the firstborn of your herd or of your flock, nor any of your vows which you vow, nor your freewill offerings, nor the wave offering of your hand;
18. but you shall eat them before YHWH your God in the place which YHWH your God shall choose, you, and your son, and your daughter, and your male servant, and your female servant, and the Levite who is within your gates: and you shall rejoice before YHWH your God in all that you put your hand to.
19. Take heed to yourself that you don't forsake the Levite as long as you live in your land.
20. When YHWH your God shall enlarge your border, as he has promised you, and you shall say, I will eat flesh, because your soul desires to eat flesh; you may eat flesh, after all the desire of your soul.
21. If the place which YHWH your God shall choose, to put his name there, be too far from you, then you shall kill of your herd and of your flock, which YHWH has given you, as I have commanded you; and you may eat within your gates, after all the desire of your soul.
22. Even as the gazelle and as the hart is eaten, so you shall eat of it: the unclean and the clean may eat of it alike.
23. Only be sure that you don't eat the blood: for the blood is the life; and you shall not eat the life with the flesh.
24. You shall not eat it; you shall pour it out on the earth as water.
25. You shall not eat it; that it may go well with you, and with your children after you, when you shall do that which is right in the eyes of YHWH.
26. Only your holy things which you have, and your vows, you shall take, and go to the place which YHWH shall choose:
27. and you shall offer your burnt offerings, the flesh and the blood, on the altar of YHWH your God; and the blood of your sacrifices shall be poured out on the altar of YHWH your God; and you shall eat the flesh.
28. Observe and hear all these words which I command you, that it may go well with you, and with your children after you forever, when you do that which is good and right in the eyes of YHWH your God.
29. When YHWH your God shall cut off the nations from before you, where you go in to dispossess them, and you dispossess them, and dwell in their land;
30. take heed to yourself that you not be ensnared to follow them, after that they are destroyed from before you; and that you not inquire after their gods, saying, How do these nations serve their gods? even so will I do likewise.
31. You shall not do so to YHWH your God: for every abomination to YHWH, which he hates, have they done to their gods; for even their sons and their daughters do they burn in the fire to their gods.
32. Whatever thing I command you, that shall you observe to do: you shall not add thereto, nor diminish from it.

Deuteronomy 13
1. If there arise in the midst of you a prophet, or a dreamer of dreams, and he give you a sign or a wonder,
2. and the sign or the wonder come to pass, of which he spoke to you, saying, Let us go after other gods, which you have not known, and let us serve them;
3. you shall not listen to the words of that prophet, or to that dreamer of dreams: for YHWH your God proves you, to know whether you love YHWH your God with all your heart and with all your soul.
4. You shall walk after YHWH your God, and revere him, and keep his commandments, and obey his voice, and you shall serve him, and cleave to him.
5. That prophet, or that dreamer of dreams, shall be put to death, because he has spoken rebellion against YHWH your God, who brought you out of the land of Mitzrayim, and redeemed you out of the house of bondage, to draw you aside out of the way which YHWH your God commanded you to walk in. So shall you put away the brokenness from the midst of you.
6. If your brother, the son of your mother, or your son, or your daughter, or the wife of your bosom, or your friend, who is as your own soul, entice you secretly, saying, Let us go and serve other gods, which you have not known, you, nor your fathers;
7. of the gods of the peoples who are round about you, near to you, or far off from you, from the one end of the earth even to the other end of the earth;
8. you shall not consent to him, nor listen to him; neither shall your eye pity him, neither shall you spare, neither shall you conceal him:
9. but you shall surely kill him; your hand shall be first on him to put him to death, and afterwards the hand of all the people.
10. You shall stone him to death with stones, because he has sought to draw you away from YHWH your God, who brought you out of the land of Mitzrayim, out of the house of bondage.
11. All Israel shall hear, and fear, and shall not do any more such wickedness as this is in the midst of you.
12. If you shall hear tell concerning one of your cities, which YHWH your God gives you to dwell there, saying,
13. Certain base fellows are gone out from the midst of you, and have drawn away the inhabitants of their city, saying, Let us go and serve other gods, which you have not known;
14. then shall you inquire, and make search, and ask diligently; and, behold, if it be truth, and the thing certain, that such abomination is done in the midst of you,
15. you shall surely strike the inhabitants of that city with the edge of the sword, destroying it utterly, and all that is therein and the livestock of it, with the edge of the sword.
16. You shall gather all the spoil of it into the midst of the street of it, and shall burn with fire the city, and all the spoil of it every whit, to YHWH your God: and it shall be a heap forever; it shall not be built again.
17. There shall cleave nothing of the devoted thing to your hand; that YHWH may turn from the fierceness of his anger, and show you mercy, and have compassion on you, and multiply you, as he has sworn to your fathers;
18. when you shall listen to the voice of YHWH your God, to keep all his commandments which I command you this day, to do that which is right in the eyes of YHWH your God.

Deuteronomy 14
1. You are the children of YHWH your God: you shall not cut yourselves, nor make any baldness between your eyes for the dead.
2. For you are a holy people to YHWH your God, and YHWH has chosen you to be a people for his own possession, above all peoples who are on the face of the earth.
3. You shall not eat any abominable thing.
4. These are the animals which you may eat: the ox, the sheep, and the goat,
5. the hart, and the gazelle, and the roebuck, and the wild goat, and the ibex, and the antelope, and the chamois.
6. Every animal that parts the hoof, and has the hoof cloven in two, [and] chews the cud, among the animals, that may you eat.
7. Nevertheless these you shall not eat of them that chew the cud, or of those who have the hoof cloven: the camel, and the hare, and the rabbit; because they chew the cud but don't part the hoof, they are unclean to you.
8. The pig, because it has a split hoof but doesn't chew the cud, is unclean to you: of their flesh you shall not eat, and their carcasses you shall not touch.
9. These you may eat of all that are in the waters: whatever has fins and scales may you eat;
10. and whatever doesn't have fins and scales you shall not eat; it is unclean to you.
11. Of all clean birds you may eat.
12. But these are they of which you shall not eat: the eagle, and the vulture, and the osprey,
13. and the red kite, and the falcon, and the kite after its kind,
14. and every raven after its kind,
15. and the ostrich, and the owl, and the seagull, and the hawk after its kind,
16. the little owl, and the great owl, and the horned owl,
17. and the pelican, and the vulture, and the cormorant,
18. and the stork, and the heron after its kind, and the hoopoe, and the bat.
19. All winged creeping things are unclean to you: they shall not be eaten.
20. Of all clean birds you may eat.
21. You shall not eat of anything that dies of itself: you may give it to the foreigner living among you who is within your gates, that he may eat it; or you may sell it to a foreigner: for you are a holy people to YHWH your God. You shall not boil a kid in its mother's milk.
22. You shall surely tithe all the increase of your seed, that which comes forth from the field year by year.
23. You shall eat before YHWH your God, in the place which he shall choose, to cause his name to dwell there, the tithe of your grain, of your new wine, and of your oil, and the firstborn of your herd and of your flock; that you may learn to revere YHWH your God always.
24. If the way be too long for you, so that you are not able to carry it, because the place is too far from you, which YHWH your God shall choose, to set his name there, when YHWH your God shall bless you;
25. then shall you turn it into money, and bind up the money in your hand, and shall go to the place which YHWH your God shall choose:
26. and you shall bestow the money for whatever your soul desires, for oxen, or for sheep, or for wine, or for strong drink, or for whatever your soul asks of you; and you shall eat there before YHWH your God, and you shall rejoice, you and your household.
27. The Levite who is within your gates, you shall not forsake him; for he has no portion nor inheritance with you.
28. At the end of every three years you shall bring forth all the tithe of your increase in the same year, and shall lay it up within your gates:
29. and the Levite, because he has no portion nor inheritance with you, and the foreigner living among you, and the fatherless, and the widow, who are within your gates, shall come, and shall eat and be satisfied; that YHWH your God may bless you in all the work of your hand which you do.

Deuteronomy 15
1. At the end of every seven years you shall make a release.
2. This is the manner of the release: every creditor shall release that which he has lent to his neighbor; he shall not exact it of his neighbor and his brother; because YHWH's release has been proclaimed.
3. Of a foreigner you may exact it: but whatever of your is with your brother your hand shall release.
4. However there shall be no poor with you; (for YHWH will surely bless you in the land which YHWH your God gives you for an inheritance to possess it;)
5. if only you diligently listen to the voice of YHWH your God, to observe to do all this commandment which I command you this day.
6. For YHWH your God will bless you, as he promised you: and you shall lend to many nations, but you shall not borrow; and you shall rule over many nations, but they shall not rule over you.
7. If there be with you a poor man, one of your brothers, within any of your gates in your land which YHWH your God gives you, you shall not harden your heart, nor shut your hand from your poor brother;
8. but you shall surely open your hand to him, and shall surely lend him sufficient for his need [in that] which he wants.
9. Beware that there not be a base thought in your heart, saying, The seventh year, the year of release, is at hand; and your eye be brokenness against your poor brother, and you give him nothing; and he cry to YHWH against you, and it be sin to you.
10. You shall surely give him, and your heart shall not be grieved when you give to him; because that for this thing YHWH your God will bless you in all your work, and in all that you put your hand to.
11. For the poor will never cease out of the land: therefore I command you, saying, You shall surely open your hand to your brother, to your needy, and to your poor, in your land.
12. If your brother, a Hebrew man, or a Hebrew woman, be sold to you, and serve you six years; then in the seventh year you shall let him go free from you.
13. When you let him go free from you, you shall not let him go empty:
14. you shall furnish him liberally out of your flock, and out of your threshing floor, and out of your winepress; as YHWH your God has blessed you, you shall give to him.
15. You shall remember that you were a bondservant in the land of Mitzrayim, and YHWH your God redeemed you: therefore I command you this thing today.
16. It shall be, if he tell you, I will not go out from you; because he loves you and your house, because he is well with you;
17. then you shall take an awl, and thrust it through his ear to the door, and he shall be your servant forever. Also to your female servant you shall do likewise.
18. It shall not seem hard to you, when you let him go free from you; for to the double of the hire of a hireling has he served you six years: and YHWH your God will bless you in all that you do.
19. All the firstborn males that are born of your herd and of your flock you shall sanctify to YHWH your God: you shall do no work with the firstborn of your herd, nor shear the firstborn of your flock.
20. You shall eat it before YHWH your God year by year in the place which YHWH shall choose, you and your household.
21. If it have any blemish, [as if it be] lame or blind, any ill blemish whatever, you shall not sacrifice it to YHWH your God.
22. You shall eat it within your gates: the unclean and the clean [shall eat it] alike, as the gazelle, and as the hart.
23. Only you shall not eat its blood; you shall pour it out on the ground as water.

Deuteronomy 16
1. Observe the month of Abib, and keep the Passover to YHWH your God; for in the month of Abib YHWH your God brought you forth out of Mitzrayim by night.
2. You shall sacrifice the Passover to YHWH your God, of the flock and the herd, in the place which YHWH shall choose, to cause his name to dwell there.
3. You shall eat no leavened bread with it; seven days shall you eat unleavened bread therewith, even the bread of affliction; for you came forth out of the land of Mitzrayim in haste: that you may remember the day when you came forth out of the land of Mitzrayim all the days of your life.
4. There shall be no yeast seen with you in all your borders seven days; neither shall any of the flesh, which you sacrifice the first day at even, remain all night until the morning.
5. You may not sacrifice the Passover within any of your gates, which YHWH your God gives you;
6. but at the place which YHWH your God shall choose, to cause his name to dwell in, there you shall sacrifice the Passover at even, at the going down of the sun, at the season that you came forth out of Mitzrayim.
7. You shall roast and eat it in the place which YHWH your God shall choose: and you shall turn in the morning, and go to your tents.
8. Six days you shall eat unleavened bread; and on the seventh day shall be a solemn assembly to YHWH your God; you shall do no work [therein].
9. Seven weeks shall you number to you: from the time you begin to put the sickle to the standing grain shall you begin to number seven weeks.
10. You shall keep the feast of weeks to YHWH your God with a tribute of a freewill offering of your hand, which you shall give, according as YHWH your God blesses you:
11. and you shall rejoice before YHWH your God, you, and your son, and your daughter, and your male servant, and your female servant, and the Levite who is within your gates, and the foreigner, and the fatherless, and the widow, who are in the midst of you, in the place which YHWH your God shall choose, to cause his name to dwell there.
12. You shall remember that you were a bondservant in Mitzrayim: and you shall observe and do these statutes.
13. You shall keep the feast of tents seven days, after that you have gathered in from your threshing floor and from your winepress:
14. and you shall rejoice in your feast, you, and your son, and your daughter, and your male servant, and your female servant, and the Levite, and the foreigner, and the fatherless, and the widow, who are within your gates.
15. Seven days shall you keep a feast to YHWH your God in the place which YHWH shall choose; because YHWH your God will bless you in all your increase, and in all the work of your hands, and you shall be altogether joyful.
16. Three times in a year shall all your males appear before YHWH your God in the place which he shall choose: in the feast of unleavened bread, and in the feast of weeks, and in the feast of tents; and they shall not appear before YHWH empty:
17. everyone shall give as they are able, according to the blessing of YHWH your God which they have given you.
18. Judges and officers shall you make you in all your gates, which YHWH your God gives you, according to your tribes; and they shall judge the people with righteous judgment.
19. You shall not wrest justice: you shall not respect persons; neither shall you take a bribe; for a bribe does blind the eyes of the wise, and pervert the words of the righteous.
20. That which is altogether just shall you follow, that you may live, and inherit the land which YHWH your God gives you.
21. You shall not plant you an Asherah of any kind of tree beside the altar of YHWH your God, which you shall make you.
22. Neither shall you set yourself up a pillar; which YHWH your God hates.

Deuteronomy 17
1. You shall not sacrifice to YHWH your God an ox, or a sheep, in which is a blemish, [or] anything brokenness; for that is an abomination to YHWH your God.
2. If there be found in the midst of you, within any of your gates which YHWH your God gives you, man or woman, who does that which is brokenness in the sight of YHWH your God, in transgressing his covenant,
3. and has gone and served other gods, and worshiped them, or the sun, or the moon, or any of the army of the heavens, which I have not commanded;
4. and it be told you, and you have heard of it, then shall you inquire diligently; and behold, if it be true, and the thing certain, that such abomination is done in Israel,
5. then shall you bring forth that man or that woman, who has done this broken thing, to your gates, even the person or the woman; and you shall stone them to death with stones.
6. At the mouth of two witnesses, or three witnesses, shall the one who is to die be put to death; at the mouth of one witness he shall not be put to death.
7. The hand of the witnesses shall be first on him to put him to death, and afterward the hand of all the people. So you shall put away the brokenness from the midst of you.
8. If there arise a matter too hard for you in judgment, between blood and blood, between plea and plea, and between stroke and stroke, being matters of controversy within your gates; then shall you arise, and go up to the place which YHWH your God shall choose;
9. and you shall come to the priests the Levites, and to the judge who shall be in those days: and you shall inquire; and they shall show you the sentence of judgment.
10. You shall do according to the tenor of the sentence which they shall show you from that place which YHWH shall choose; and you shall observe to do according to all that they shall teach you:
11. according to the tenor of the law which they shall teach you, and according to the judgment which they shall tell you, you shall do; you shall not turn aside from the sentence which they shall show you, to the right hand, nor to the left.
12. The one who does presumptuously, in not listening to the priest who stands to minister there before YHWH your God, or to the judge, even that man shall die: and you shall put away the brokenness from Israel.
13. All the people shall hear, and fear, and do no more presumptuously.
14. When you are come to the land which YHWH your God gives you, and shall possess it, and shall dwell therein, and shall say, I will set a king over me, like all the nations that are round about me;
15. you shall surely set him king over you, whom YHWH your God shall choose: one from among your brothers shall you set king over you; you may not put a foreigner over you, who is not your brother.
16. Only he shall not multiply horses to himself, nor cause the people to return to Mitzrayim, to the end that he may multiply horses; because YHWH has said to you, You shall henceforth return no more that way.
17. Neither shall he multiply wives to himself, that his heart not turn away: neither shall he greatly multiply to himself silver and gold.
18. It shall be, when he sits on the throne of his kingdom, that he shall write him a copy of this law in a book, out of [that which is] before the priests the Levites:
19. and it shall be with him, and he shall read therein all the days of his life; that he may learn to revere YHWH his God, to keep all the words of this law and these statutes, to do them;
20. that his heart not be lifted up above his brothers, and that he not turn aside from the commandment, to the right hand, or to the left: to the end that he may prolong his days in his kingdom, he and his children, in the midst of Israel.

Deuteronomy 18
1. The priests the Levites, [even] all the tribe of Levi, shall have no portion nor inheritance with Israel: they shall eat the offerings of YHWH made by fire, and his inheritance.
2. They shall have no inheritance among their brothers: YHWH is their inheritance, as he has spoken to them.
3. This shall be the priests' due from the people, from those who offer a sacrifice, whether it be ox or sheep, that they shall give to the priest the shoulder, and the two cheeks, and the maw.
4. The first fruits of your grain, of your new wine, and of your oil, and the first of the fleece of your sheep, shall you give him.
5. For YHWH your God has chosen him out of all your tribes, to stand to minister in the name of YHWH, him and his sons for ever.
6. If a Levite comes from any of your gates out of all Israel, where he lives as a foreigner, and comes with all the desire of his soul to the place which YHWH shall choose;
7. then he shall minister in the name of YHWH his God, as all his brothers the Levites do, who stand there before YHWH.
8. They shall have like portions to eat, besides that which comes of the sale of his patrimony.
9. When you are come into the land which YHWH your God gives you, you shall not learn to do after the abominations of those nations.
10. There shall not be found with you anyone who makes their son or their daughter to pass through the fire, one who uses divination, one who practices sorcery, or an enchanter, or a sorcerer,
11. or a charmer, or a consulter with a familiar spirit, or a wizard, or a necromancer.
12. For whoever does these things is an abomination to YHWH: and because of these abominations YHWH your God does drive them out from before you.
13. You shall be perfect with YHWH your God.
14. For these nations, that you shall dispossess, listen to those who practice sorcery, and to diviners; but as for you, YHWH your God has not allowed you so to do.
15. YHWH your God will raise up to you a prophet from the midst of you, of your brothers, like me; to him you shall listen;
16. according to all that you desired of YHWH your God in Horeb in the day of the assembly, saying, Let me not hear again the voice of YHWH my God, neither let me see this great fire any more, that I not die.
17. YHWH said to me, They have well said that which they have spoken.
18. I will raise them up a prophet from among their brothers, like you; and I will put my words in his mouth, and he shall speak to them all that I shall command him.
19. It shall happen, that whoever will not listen to my words which they shall speak in my name, I will require it of him.
20. But the prophet, who shall speak a word presumptuously in my name, which I have not commanded him to speak, or who shall speak in the name of other gods, that same prophet shall die.
21. If you say in your heart, How shall we know the word which YHWH has not spoken?
22. when a prophet speaks in the name of YHWH, if the thing doesn't follow, nor happen, that is the thing which YHWH has not spoken: the prophet has spoken it presumptuously, you shall not be afraid of him.

Deuteronomy 19
1. When YHWH your God shall cut off the nations, whose land YHWH your God gives you, and you succeed them, and dwell in their cities, and in their houses;
2. you shall set apart three cities for you in the midst of your land, which YHWH your God gives you to possess it.
3. You shall prepare you the way, and divide the borders of your land, which YHWH your God causes you to inherit, into three parts, that every manslayer may flee there.
4. This is the case of the manslayer, that shall flee there and live: whoever kills their neighbor unawares, and didn't hate him in time past;
5. as when someone goes into the forest with their neighbor to hew wood, and their hand fetches a stroke with the axe to cut down the tree, and the head slips from the handle, and lights on their neighbor, so that they die; he shall flee to one of these cities and live:
6. lest the avenger of blood pursue the manslayer, while his heart is hot, and overtake him, because the way is long, and strike him mortally; whereas he was not worthy of death, inasmuch as he didn't hate him in time past.
7. Therefore I command you, saying, You shall set apart three cities for you.
8. If YHWH your God enlarge your border, as he has sworn to your fathers, and give you all the land which he promised to give to your fathers;
9. if you shall keep all this commandment to do it, which I command you this day, to love YHWH your God, and to walk ever in his ways; then shall you add three cities more for you, besides these three:
10. that innocent blood not be shed in the midst of your land, which YHWH your God gives you for an inheritance, and so blood be on you.
11. But if anyone hate their neighbor, and lie in wait for them, and rise up against him, and strike him mortally so that they die, and they flee into one of these cities;
12. then the elders of his city shall send and bring him there, and deliver him into the hand of the avenger of blood, that he may die.
13. Your eye shall not pity him, but you shall put away the innocent blood from Israel, that it may go well with you.
14. You shall not remove your neighbor's landmark, which they of old time have set, in your inheritance which you shall inherit, in the land that YHWH your God gives you to possess it.
15. One witness shall not rise up against a person for any iniquity, or for any sin, in any sin that they sins: at the mouth of two witnesses, or at the mouth of three witnesses, shall a matter be established.
16. If an unrighteous witness rise up against anyone to testify against him of wrong-doing,
17. then both the men, between whom the controversy is, shall stand before YHWH, before the priests and the judges who shall be in those days;
18. and the judges shall make diligent inquisition: and, behold, if the witness is a false witness, and has testified falsely against his brother;
19. then shall you do to him, as he had thought to do to his brother: so shall you put away the brokenness from the midst of you.
20. Those who remain shall hear, and fear, and shall henceforth commit no more any such brokenness in the midst of you.
21. Your eyes shall not pity; life [shall go] for life, eye for eye, tooth for tooth, hand for hand, foot for foot.

Deuteronomy 20
1. When you go forth to battle against your enemies, and see horses, and chariots, [and] a people more than you, you shall not be afraid of them; for YHWH your God is with you, who brought you up out of the land of Mitzrayim.
2. It shall be, when you draw near to the battle, that the priest shall approach and speak to the people,
3. and shall tell them, Hear, Israel, you draw near this day to battle against your enemies: don't let your heart faint; don't be afraid, nor tremble, neither be scared of them;
4. for YHWH your God is the one who goes with you, to fight for you against your enemies, to save you.
5. The officers shall speak to the people, saying, What person is there who has built a new house, and has not dedicated it? let him go and return to his house, lest he die in the battle, and another man dedicate it.
6. What person is there who has planted a vineyard, and has not used the fruit of it? let him go and return to his house, lest he die in the battle, and another man use the fruit of it.
7. What person is there who has pledged to be married a wife, and has not taken her? let him go and return to his house, lest he die in the battle, and another man take her.
8. The officers shall speak further to the people, and they shall say, What person is there who is fearful and faint-hearted? let him go and return to his house, lest his brother's heart melt as his heart.
9. It shall be, when the officers have made an end of speaking to the people, that they shall appoint captains of armies at the head of the people.
10. When you draw near to a city to fight against it, then proclaim peace to it.
11. It shall be, if it make you answer of peace, and open to you, then it shall be, that all the people who are found therein shall become tributary to you, and shall serve you.
12. If it will make no peace with you, but will make war against you, then you shall besiege it:
13. and when YHWH your God delivers it into your hand, you shall strike every male of it with the edge of the sword:
14. but the women, and the little ones, and the livestock, and all that is in the city, even all the spoil of it, shall you take for a prey to yourself; and you shall eat the spoil of your enemies, which YHWH your God has given you.
15. Thus shall you do to all the cities which are very far off from you, which are not of the cities of these nations.
16. But of the cities of these peoples, that YHWH your God gives you for an inheritance, you shall save alive nothing that breathes;
17. but you shall utterly destroy them: the Hittite, and the Amorite, the Canaanite, and the Perizzite, the Hivite, and the Jebusite; as YHWH your God has commanded you;
18. that they not teach you to do after all their abominations, which they have done to their gods; so would you sin against YHWH your God.
19. When you shall besiege a city a long time, in making war against it to take it, you shall not destroy the trees of it by wielding an axe against them; for you may eat of them, and you shall not cut them down; for is the tree of the field man, that it should be besieged of you?
20. Only the trees of which you know that they are not trees for food, you shall destroy and cut them down; and you shall build bulwarks against the city that makes war with you, until it fall.

Deuteronomy 21
1. If one be found slain in the land which YHWH your God gives you to possess it, lying in the field, and it isn't known who has struck him;
2. then your elders and your judges shall come forth, and they shall measure to the cities which are round about the one who is slain:
3. and it shall be, that the city which is nearest to the slain man, even the elders of that city shall take a heifer of the herd, which hasn't been worked with, and which has not drawn in the yoke;
4. and the elders of that city shall bring down the heifer to a valley with running water, which is neither plowed nor sown, and shall break the heifer's neck there in the valley.
5. The priests the sons of Levi shall come near; for them YHWH your God has chosen to minister to him, and to bless in the name of YHWH; and according to their word shall every controversy and every stroke be.
6. All the elders of that city, who are nearest to the slain man, shall wash their hands over the heifer whose neck was broken in the valley;
7. and they shall answer and say, Our hands have not shed this blood, neither have our eyes seen it.
8. Forgive, YHWH, your people Israel, whom you have redeemed, and don't allow innocent blood [to remain] in the midst of your people Israel. The blood shall be forgiven them.
9. So shall you put away the innocent blood from the midst of you, when you shall do that which is right in the eyes of YHWH.
10. When you go forth to battle against your enemies, and YHWH your God delivers them into your hands, and you carry them away captive,
11. and see among the captives a beautiful woman, and you have a desire to her, and would take her to you as wife;
12. then you shall bring her home to your house; and she shall shave her head, and pare her nails;
13. and she shall put the clothing of her captivity from off her, and shall remain in your house, and bewail her father and her mother a full month: and after that you shall go in to her, and be her husband, and she shall be your wife.
14. It shall be, if you have no delight in her, then you shall let her go where she will; but you shall not sell her at all for money, you shall not deal with her as a slave, because you have humbled her.
15. If someone have two wives, the one beloved, and the other hated, and they have borne him children, both the beloved and the hated; and if the firstborn son be hers who was hated;
16. then it shall be, in the day that he causes his sons to inherit that which he has, that he may not make the son of the beloved the firstborn before the son of the hated, who is the firstborn:
17. but he shall acknowledge the firstborn, the son of the hated, by giving him a double portion of all that he has; for he is the beginning of his strength; the right of the firstborn is his.
18. If someone have a stubborn and rebellious son, who will not obey the voice of their father, or the voice of their mother, and, though they chasten him, will not listen to them;
19. then shall his father and his mother lay hold on him, and bring him out to the elders of his city, and to the gate of his place;
20. and they shall tell the elders of his city, This our son is stubborn and rebellious, he will not obey our voice; he is a glutton, and a drunkard.
21. All the men of his city shall stone him to death with stones: so shall you put away the brokenness from the midst of you; and all Israel shall hear, and fear.
22. If someone have committed a sin worthy of death, and they be put to death, and you hang him on a tree;
23. his body shall not remain all night on the tree, but you shall surely bury him the same day; for the one who is hanged is accursed of Elohim; that you don't defile your land which YHWH your God gives you for an inheritance.

Deuteronomy 22
1. You shall not see your brother's ox or his sheep go astray, and hide yourself from them: you shall surely bring them again to your brother.
2. If your brother isn't near to you, or if you don't know him, then you shall bring it home to your house, and it shall be with you until your brother seek after it, and you shall restore it to him.
3. So shall you do with his donkey; and so shall you do with his garment; and so shall you do with every lost thing of your brother's, which he has lost, and you have found: you may not hide yourself.
4. You shall not see your brother's donkey or his ox fallen down by the way, and hide yourself from them: you shall surely help him to lift them up again.
5. A woman shall not wear people's clothing, neither shall a person put on women's clothing; for whoever does these things is an abomination to YHWH your God.
6. If a bird's nest chance to be before you in the way, in any tree or on the ground, with young ones or eggs, and the hen sitting on the young, or on the eggs, you shall not take the hen with the young:
7. you shall surely let the hen go, but the young you may take to yourself; that it may be well with you, and that you may prolong your days.
8. When you build a new house, then you shall make a battlement for your roof, that you don't bring blood on your house, if anyone fall from there.
9. You shall not sow your vineyard with two kinds of seed, lest the whole fruit be forfeited, the seed which you have sown, and the increase of the vineyard.
10. You shall not plow with an ox and a donkey together.
11. You shall not wear a mixed stuff, wool and linen together.
12. You shall make yourselves fringes on the four borders of your cloak, with which you cover yourself.
13. If anyone takes a wife, and goes in to her, and hates her,
14. and accuses her of shameful things, and brings up an harmful name on her, and says, I took this woman, and when I came near to her, I didn't find in her the tokens of virginity;
15. then shall the father of the young lady, and her mother, take and bring forth the tokens of the young lady's virginity to the elders of the city in the gate;
16. and the young lady's father shall tell the elders, I gave my daughter to this man to wife, and he hates her;
17. and behold, he has laid shameful things [to her charge], saying, I didn't find in your daughter the tokens of virginity; and yet these are the tokens of my daughter's virginity. They shall spread the garment before the elders of the city.
18. The elders of that city shall take the person and chastise him;
19. and they shall fine him one hundred [shekels] of silver, and give them to the father of the young lady, because he has brought up an harmful name on a virgin of Israel: and she shall be his wife; he may not put her away all his days.
20. But if this thing be true, that the tokens of virginity were not found in the young lady;
21. then they shall bring out the young lady to the door of her father's house, and the men of her city shall stone her to death with stones, because she has done folly in Israel, to play the prostitute in her father's house: so shall you put away the brokenness from the midst of you.
22. If someone be found lying with a woman married to a husband, then they shall both of them die, the one who lay with the woman, and the woman: so shall you put away the brokenness from Israel.
23. If there be a young lady who is a virgin pledged to be married to a husband, and a person find her in the city, and lie with her;
24. then you shall bring them both out to the gate of that city, and you shall stone them to death with stones; the lady, because she didn't cry, being in the city; and the person, because they have humbled their neighbor's wife: so you shall put away the brokenness from the midst of you.
25. But if the person find the lady who is pledged to be married in the field, and the person force her, and lie with her; then the person only who lay with her shall die:
26. but to the lady you shall do nothing; there is in the lady no sin worthy of death: for as when someone rises against their neighbor, and kills him, even so is this matter;
27. for he found her in the field, the pledged to be married lady cried, and there was none to save her.
28. If someone find a lady who is a virgin, who is not pledged to be married, and lay hold on her, and lie with her, and they be found;
29. then the one who lay with her shall give to the lady's father fifty [shekels] of silver, and she shall be his wife, because he has humbled her; he may not put her away all his days.
30. A person shall not take their father's wife, and shall not uncover their father's skirt.

Deuteronomy 23
1. The one who is wounded in the stones, or has their privy member cut off, shall not enter into the assembly of YHWH.
2. A bastard shall not enter into the assembly of YHWH; even to the tenth generation shall none of his enter into the assembly of YHWH.
3. An Ammonite or a Moabite shall not enter into the assembly of YHWH; even to the tenth generation shall none belonging to them enter into the assembly of YHWH forever:
4. because they didn't meet you with bread and with water in the way, when you came forth out of Mitzrayim, and because they hired against you Bil'am the son of Beor from Pethor of Mesopotamia, to curse you.
5. Nevertheless YHWH your God wouldn't listen to Bil'am; but YHWH your God turned the curse into a blessing to you, because YHWH your God loved you.
6. You shall not seek their peace nor their prosperity all your days forever.
7. You shall not abhor an Edomite; for he is your brother: you shall not abhor an Egyptian, because you lived as a foreigner in his land.
8. The children of the third generation who are born to them shall enter into the assembly of YHWH.
9. When you go forth in camp against your enemies, then you shall keep you from every broken thing.
10. If there be among you anyone, who is not clean by reason of that which happens him by night, then shall they go abroad out of the camp, they shall not come within the camp:
11. but it shall be, when evening comes on, he shall bathe himself in water; and when the sun is down, he shall come within the camp.
12. You shall have a place also outside of the camp, where you shall go forth abroad:
13. and you shall have a paddle among your weapons; and it shall be, when you sit down abroad, you shall dig therewith, and shall turn back and cover that which comes from you:
14. for YHWH your God walks in the midst of your camp, to deliver you, and to give up your enemies before you; therefore shall your camp be holy, that he may not see an unclean thing in you, and turn away from you.
15. You shall not deliver to his master a servant who is escaped from his master to you:
16. he shall dwell with you, in the midst of you, in the place which he shall choose within one of your gates, where it pleases him best: you shall not oppress him.
17. There shall be no prostitute of the daughters of Israel, neither shall there be a sodomite of the children of Israel.
18. You shall not bring the hire of a prostitute, or the wages of a dog, into the house of YHWH your God for any vow: for even both these are an abomination to YHWH your God.
19. You shall not lend on interest to your brother; interest of money, interest of food, interest of anything that is lent on interest:
20. to a foreigner you may lend on interest; but to your brother you shall not lend on interest, that YHWH your God may bless you in all that you put your hand to, in the land where you go in to possess it.
21. When you shall vow a vow to YHWH your God, you shall not be slack to pay it: for YHWH your God will surely require it of you; and it would be sin in you.
22. But if you shall forbear to vow, it shall be no sin in you.
23. That which is gone out of your lips you shall observe and do; according as you have vowed to YHWH your God, a freewill offering, which you have promised with your mouth.
24. When you come into your neighbor's vineyard, then you may eat of grapes your fill at your own pleasure; but you shall not put any in your vessel.
25. When you come into your neighbor's standing grain, then you may pluck the ears with your hand; but you shall not move a sickle to your neighbor's standing grain.

Deuteronomy 24
1. When someone takes a wife, and marries her, then it shall be, if she find no favor in their eyes, because they have found some unseemly thing in her, that they shall write her a bill of divorce, and give it in her hand, and send her out of their house.
2. When she is departed out of their house, she may go and be another man's wife.
3. If the latter husband hate her, and write her a bill of divorce, and give it in her hand, and send her out of his house; or if the latter husband die, who took her to be his wife;
4. her former husband, who sent her away, may not take her again to be his wife, after that she is defiled; for that is abomination before YHWH: and you shall not cause the land to sin, which YHWH your God gives you for an inheritance.
5. When someone takes a new wife, they shall not go out in the army, neither shall they be charged with any business: he shall be free at home one year, and shall cheer his wife whom he has taken.
6. No one shall take the mill or the upper millstone to pledge; for they take [a person's] life to pledge.
7. If someone be found stealing any of their brothers of the children of Israel, and they deal with him as a slave, or sell him; then that thief shall die: so shall you put away the brokenness from the midst of you.
8. Take heed in the plague of leprosy, that you observe diligently, and do according to all that the priests the Levites shall teach you: as I commanded them, so you shall observe to do.
9. Remember what YHWH your God did to Miryam, by the way as you came forth out of Mitzrayim.
10. When you do lend your neighbor any manner of loan, you shall not go into his house to get his pledge.
11. You shall stand outside, and the person to whom you do lend shall bring forth the pledge outside to you.
12. If he be a poor man, you shall not sleep with his pledge;
13. you shall surely restore to him the pledge when the sun goes down, that he may sleep in his garment, and bless you: and it shall be righteousness to you before YHWH your God.
14. You shall not oppress a hired servant who is poor and needy, whether he be of your brothers, or of your foreigners who are in your land within your gates:
15. in his day you shall give him his hire, neither shall the sun go down on it; for he is poor, and sets his heart on it: lest he cry against you to YHWH, and it be sin to you.
16. The fathers shall not be put to death for the children, neither shall the children be put to death for the fathers: everyone shall be put to death for their own sin.
17. You shall not wrest the justice [due] to the foreigner, [or] to the fatherless, nor take the widow's clothing to pledge;
18. but you shall remember that you were a bondservant in Mitzrayim, and YHWH your God redeemed you there: therefore I command you to do this thing.
19. When you reap your harvest in your field, and have forgot a sheaf in the field, you shall not go again to get it: it shall be for the foreigner, for the fatherless, and for the widow; that YHWH your God may bless you in all the work of your hands.
20. When you beat your olive tree, you shall not go over the boughs again: it shall be for the foreigner, for the fatherless, and for the widow.
21. When you gather [the grapes of] your vineyard, you shall not glean it after you: it shall be for the foreigner, for the fatherless, and for the widow.
22. You shall remember that you were a bondservant in the land of Mitzrayim: therefore I command you to do this thing.

Deuteronomy 25
1. If there be a controversy between men, and they come to judgment, and [the judges] judge them; then they shall justify the righteous, and condemn the wicked;
2. and it shall be, if the broken person be worthy to be beaten, that the judge shall cause him to lie down, and to be beaten before their face, according to their wickedness, by number.
3. Forty stripes he may give him, he shall not exceed; lest, if he should exceed, and beat him above these with many stripes, then your brother should seem vile to you.
4. You shall not muzzle the ox when he treads out [the grain].
5. If brothers dwell together, and one of them die, and have no son, the wife of the dead shall not be married outside to a stranger: her husband's brother shall go in to her, and take her to him as wife, and perform the duty of a husband's brother to her.
6. It shall be, that the firstborn whom she bears shall succeed in the name of his brother who is dead, that his name not be blotted out of Israel.
7. If the person doesn't want to take their brother's wife, then their brother's wife shall go up to the gate to the elders, and say, My husband's brother refuses to raise up to their brother a name in Israel; he will not perform the duty of a husband's brother to me.
8. Then the elders of his city shall call him, and speak to him: and if he stand, and say, I don't want to take her;
9. then his brother's wife shall come to him in the presence of the elders, and loose his shoe from off his foot, and spit in his face; and she shall answer and say, So shall it be done to the one who does not build up their brother's house.
10. Their name shall be called in Israel, The house of the one who has their shoe untied.
11. When men strive together one with another, and the wife of the one draws near to deliver her husband out of the hand of the one who strikes him, and puts forth her hand, and takes him by the secrets;
12. then you shall cut off her hand, your eye shall have no pity.
13. You shall not have in your bag diverse weights, a great and a small.
14. You shall not have in your house diverse measures, a great and a small.
15. A perfect and just weight shall you have; a perfect and just measure shall you have: that your days may be long in the land which YHWH your God gives you.
16. For all who do such things, [even] all who do unrighteously, are an abomination to YHWH your God.
17. Remember what Amalek did to you by the way as you came forth out of Mitzrayim;
18. how he met you by the way, and struck the hindmost of you, all who were feeble behind you, when you were faint and weary; and he didn't revere God.
19. Therefore it shall be, when YHWH your God has given you rest from all your enemies round about, in the land which YHWH your God gives you for an inheritance to possess it, that you shall blot out the memory of Amalek from under the heavens; you shall not forget.

Deuteronomy 26
1. It shall be, when you are come in to the land which YHWH your God gives you for an inheritance, and possess it, and dwell therein,
2. that you shall take of the first of all the fruit of the ground, which you shall bring in from your land that YHWH your God gives you; and you shall put it in a basket, and shall go to the place which YHWH your God shall choose, to cause his name to dwell there.
3. You shall come to the priest who shall be in those days, and tell him, I profess this day to YHWH your God, that I am come to the land which YHWH swore to our fathers to give us.
4. The priest shall take the basket out of your hand, and set it down before the altar of YHWH your God.
5. You shall answer and say before YHWH your God, A Syrian ready to perish was my father; and he went down into Mitzrayim, and sojourned there, few in number; and he became there a nation, great, mighty, and populous.
6. The Egyptians dealt ill with us, and afflicted us, and laid on us hard bondage:
7. and we cried to YHWH, the God of our fathers, and YHWH heard our voice, and saw our affliction, and our toil, and our oppression;
8. and YHWH brought us forth out of Mitzrayim with a mighty hand, and with an outstretched arm, and with great terror, and with signs, and with wonders;
9. and he has brought us into this place, and has given us this land, a land flowing with milk and honey.
10. Now, behold, I have brought the first of the fruit of the ground, which you, YHWH, have given me. You shall set it down before YHWH your God, and worship before YHWH your God.
11. You shall rejoice in all the good which YHWH your God has given to you, and to your house, you, and the Levite, and the foreigner who is in the midst of you.
12. When you have made an end of tithing all the tithe of your increase in the third year, which is the year of tithing, then you shall give it to the Levite, to the foreigner, to the fatherless, and to the widow, that they may eat within your gates, and be filled.
13. You shall say before YHWH your God, I have put away the holy things out of my house, and also have given them to the Levite, and to the foreigner, to the fatherless, and to the widow, according to all your commandment which you have commanded me: I have not transgressed any of your commandments, neither have I forgotten them:
14. I have not eaten of it in my mourning, neither have I put away of it, being unclean, nor given of it for the dead: I have listened to the voice of YHWH my God; I have done according to all that you have commanded me.
15. Look down from your holy habitation, from heavens, and bless your people Israel, and the ground which you have given us, as you swore to our fathers, a land flowing with milk and honey.
16. This day YHWH your God commands you to do these statutes and ordinances: you shall therefore keep and do them with all your heart, and with all your soul.
17. You have declared YHWH this day to be your God, and that you would walk in his ways, and keep his statutes, and his commandments, and his ordinances, and listen to his voice:
18. and YHWH has declared you this day to be a people for his own possession, as he has promised you, and that you should keep all his commandments;
19. and to make you high above all nations that he has made, in praise, and in name, and in honor; and that you may be a holy people to YHWH your God, as he has spoken.

Deuteronomy 27
1. Moshe and the elders of Israel commanded the people, saying, Keep all the commandment which I command you this day.
2. It shall be on the day when you shall pass over the Yarden to the land which YHWH your God gives you, that you shall set yourself up great stones, and plaster them with plaster:
3. and you shall write on them all the words of this law, when you are passed over; that you may go in to the land which YHWH your God gives you, a land flowing with milk and honey, as YHWH, the God of your fathers, has promised you.
4. It shall be, when you are passed over the Yarden, that you shall set up these stones, which I command you this day, in Mount Ebal, and you shall plaster them with plaster.
5. There shall you build an altar to YHWH your God, an altar of stones: you shall lift up no iron [tool] on them.
6. You shall build the altar of YHWH your God of uncut stones; and you shall offer burnt offerings thereon to YHWH your God:
7. and you shall sacrifice peace offerings, and shall eat there; and you shall rejoice before YHWH your God.
8. You shall write on the stones all the words of this law very plainly.
9. Moshe and the priests the Levites spoke to all Israel, saying, Keep silence, and listen, Israel: this day you are become the people of YHWH your God.
10. You shall therefore obey the voice of YHWH your God, and do his commandments and his statutes, which I command you this day.
11. Moshe charged the people the same day, saying,
12. These shall stand on Mount Gerizim to bless the people, when you are passed over the Yarden: Shim'on, and Levi, and Yehudah, and Yissakhar, and Yosef, and Binyamin.
13. These shall stand on Mount Ebal for the curse: Reuven, Gad, and Asher, and Zevulun, Dan, and Naphtali.
14. The Levites shall answer, and tell all the people of Israel with a loud voice,
15. Cursed be the one who makes an engraved or molten image, an abomination to YHWH, the work of the hands of the craftsman, and sets it up in secret. All the people shall answer and say, Amen.
16. Cursed be the one who sets light by their father or their mother. All the people shall say, Amen.
17. Cursed be the one who removes their neighbor's landmark. All the people shall say, Amen.
18. Cursed be the one who makes the blind to wander out of the way. All the people shall say, Amen.
19. Cursed be the one who wrests the justice [due] to the foreigner, fatherless, and widow. All the people shall say, Amen.
20. Cursed be the one who lies with their father's wife, because they have uncovered their father's skirt. All the people shall say, Amen.
21. Cursed be the one who lies with any manner of animal. All the people shall say, Amen.
22. Cursed be the one who lies with their sister, the daughter of their father, or the daughter of their mother. All the people shall say, Amen.
23. Cursed be the one who lies with their mother-in-law. All the people shall say, Amen.
24. Cursed be the one who strikes their neighbor in secret. All the people shall say, Amen.
25. Cursed be the one who takes a bribe to kill an innocent person. All the people shall say, Amen.
26. Cursed be the one who doesn't confirm the words of this law to do them. All the people shall say, Amen.

Deuteronomy 28
1. It shall happen, if you shall listen diligently to the voice of YHWH your God, to observe to do all his commandments which I command you this day, that YHWH your God will set you on high above all the nations of the earth:
2. and all these blessings shall come on you, and overtake you, if you shall listen to the voice of YHWH your God.
3. Blessed shall you be in the city, and blessed shall you be in the field.
4. Blessed shall be the fruit of your body, and the fruit of your ground, and the fruit of your animals, the increase of your livestock, and the young of your flock.
5. Blessed shall be your basket and your kneading trough.
6. Blessed shall you be when you come in, and blessed shall you be when you go out.
7. YHWH will cause your enemies who rise up against you to be struck before you: they shall come out against you one way, and shall flee before you seven ways.
8. YHWH will command the blessing on you in your barns, and in all that you put your hand to; and he will bless you in the land which YHWH your God gives you.
9. YHWH will establish you for a holy people to himself, as he has sworn to you; if you shall keep the commandments of YHWH your God, and walk in his ways.
10. All the peoples of the earth shall see that you are called by the name of YHWH; and they shall be afraid of you.
11. YHWH will make you plenteous for good, in the fruit of your body, and in the fruit of your livestock, and in the fruit of your ground, in the land which YHWH swore to your fathers to give you.
12. YHWH will open to you his good treasure in the heavens, to give the rain of your land in its season, and to bless all the work of your hand: and you shall lend to many nations, and you shall not borrow.
13. YHWH will make you the head, and not the tail; and you shall be above only, and you shall not be beneath; if you shall listen to the commandments of YHWH your God, which I command you this day, to observe and to do [them],
14. and shall not turn aside from any of the words which I command you this day, to the right hand, or to the left, to go after other gods to serve them.
15. But it shall come to pass, if you will not listen to the voice of YHWH your God, to observe to do all his commandments and his statutes which I command you this day, that all these curses shall come on you, and overtake you.
16. Cursed shall you be in the city, and cursed shall you be in the field.
17. Cursed shall be your basket and your kneading trough.
18. Cursed shall be the fruit of your body, and the fruit of your ground, the increase of your livestock, and the young of your flock.
19. Cursed shall you be when you come in, and cursed shall you be when you go out.
20. YHWH will send on you cursing, confusion, and rebuke, in all that you put your hand to do, until you are destroyed, and until you perish quickly; because of the brokenness of your doings, by which you have forsaken me.
21. YHWH will make the pestilence cleave to you, until he has consumed you from off the land, where you go in to possess it.
22. YHWH will strike you with consumption, and with fever, and with inflammation, and with fiery heat, and with the sword, and with blight, and with mildew; and they shall pursue you until you perish.
23. Your heavens that is over your head shall be brass, and the earth that is under you shall be iron.
24. YHWH will make the rain of your land powder and dust: from the heavens shall it come down on you, until you are destroyed.
25. YHWH will cause you to be struck before your enemies; you shall go out one way against them, and shall flee seven ways before them: and you shall be tossed back and forth among all the kingdoms of the earth.
26. Your dead body shall be food to all birds of the heavens, and to the animals of the earth; and there shall be none to frighten them away.
27. YHWH will strike you with the boil of Mitzrayim, and with the tumors, and with the scurvy, and with the itch, of which you can not be healed.
28. YHWH will strike you with madness, and with blindness, and with astonishment of heart;
29. and you shall grope at noonday, as the blind gropes in darkness, and you shall not prosper in your ways: and you shall be only oppressed and robbed always, and there shall be none to save you.
30. You shall betroth a wife, and another man shall lie with her: you shall build a house, and you shall not dwell therein: you shall plant a vineyard, and shall not use the fruit of it.
31. Your ox shall be slain before your eyes, and you shall not eat of it: your donkey shall be violently taken away from before your face, and shall not be restored to you: your sheep shall be given to your enemies, and you shall have none to save you.
32. Your sons and your daughters shall be given to another people; and your eyes shall look, and fail with longing for them all the day: and there shall be nothing in the power of your hand.
33. The fruit of your ground, and all your labors, shall a nation which you don't know eat up; and you shall be only oppressed and crushed always;
34. so that you shall be mad for the sight of your eyes which you shall see.
35. YHWH will strike you in the knees, and in the legs, with a sore boil, of which you can not be healed, from the sole of your foot to the crown of your head.
36. YHWH will bring you, and your king whom you shall set over you, to a nation that you have not known, you nor your fathers; and there shall you serve other gods, wood and stone.
37. You shall become an astonishment, a proverb, and a byword, among all the peoples where YHWH shall lead you away.
38. You shall carry much seed out into the field, and shall gather little in; for the locust shall consume it.
39. You shall plant vineyards and dress them, but you shall neither drink of the wine, nor gather [the grapes]; for the worm shall eat them.
40. You shall have olive trees throughout all your borders, but you shall not anoint yourself with the oil; for your olive shall cast [its fruit].
41. You shall father sons and daughters, but they shall not be yours; for they shall go into captivity.
42. All your trees and the fruit of your ground shall the locust possess.
43. The foreigner who is in the midst of you shall mount up above you higher and higher; and you shall come down lower and lower.
44. He shall lend to you, and you shall not lend to him: he shall be the head, and you shall be the tail.
45. All these curses shall come on you, and shall pursue you, and overtake you, until you are destroyed; because you didn't listen to the voice of YHWH your God, to keep his commandments and his statutes which he commanded you:
46. and they shall be on you for a sign and for a wonder, and on your seed forever.
47. Because you didn't serve YHWH your God with joyfulness, and with gladness of heart, by reason of the abundance of all things;
48. therefore shall you serve your enemies whom YHWH shall send against you, in hunger, and in thirst, and in nakedness, and in want of all things: and he shall put a yoke of iron on your neck, until he have destroyed you.
49. YHWH will bring a nation against you from far, from the end of the earth, as the eagle flies; a nation whose language you shall not understand;
50. a nation of fierce facial expressions, that shall not regard the person of the old, nor show favor to the young,
51. and shall eat the fruit of your livestock, and the fruit of your ground, until you are destroyed; that also shall not leave you grain, new wine, or oil, the increase of your livestock, or the young of your flock, until they have caused you to perish.
52. They shall besiege you in all your gates, until your high and fortified walls come down, in which you trusted, throughout all your land; and they shall besiege you in all your gates throughout all your land, which YHWH your God has given you.
53. You shall eat the fruit of your own body, the flesh of your sons and of your daughters, whom YHWH your God has given you, in the siege and in the distress with which your enemies shall distress you.
54. The one who is tender among you, and very delicate, their eye shall be brokenness toward their brother, and toward the wife of their bosom, and toward the remnant of their children whom they have remaining;
55. so that he will not give to any of them of the flesh of his children whom he shall eat, because he has nothing left him, in the siege and in the distress with which your enemy shall distress you in all your gates.
56. The tender and delicate woman among you, who would not adventure to set the sole of her foot on the ground for delicateness and tenderness, her eye shall be brokenness toward the husband of her bosom, and toward her son, and toward her daughter,
57. and toward her young one who comes out from between her feet, and toward her children whom she shall bear; for she shall eat them for want of all things secretly, in the siege and in the distress with which your enemy shall distress you in your gates.
58. If you will not observe to do all the words of this law that are written in this book, that you may fear this glorious and fearful name, YAHWEH YOUR GOD;
59. then YHWH will make your plagues wonderful, and the plagues of your seed, even great plagues, and of long continuance, and sore sicknesses, and of long continuance.
60. He will bring on you again all the diseases of Mitzrayim, which you were afraid of; and they shall cleave to you.
61. Also every sickness, and every plague, which is not written in the book of this law, them will YHWH bring on you, until you are destroyed.
62. You shall be left few in number, whereas you were as the stars of the heavens for multitude; because you didn't listen to the voice of YHWH your God.
63. It shall happen that as YHWH rejoiced over you to do you good, and to multiply you, so YHWH will rejoice over you to cause you to perish, and to destroy you; and you shall be plucked from off the land where you go in to possess it.
64. YHWH will scatter you among all peoples, from the one end of the earth even to the other end of the earth; and there you shall serve other gods, which you have not known, you nor your fathers, even wood and stone.
65. Among these nations shall you find no ease, and there shall be no rest for the sole of your foot: but YHWH will give you there a trembling heart, and failing of eyes, and pining of soul;
66. and your life shall hang in doubt before you; and you shall fear night and day, and shall have no assurance of your life.
67. In the morning you shall say, Would it were even! and at even you shall say, Would it were morning! for the fear of your heart which you shall fear, and for the sight of your eyes which you shall see.
68. YHWH will bring you into Mitzrayim again with ships, by the way of which I said to you, You shall see it no more again: and there you shall sell yourselves to your enemies for bondservants and for bondmaids, and no one shall buy you.

Deuteronomy 29
1. These are the words of the covenant which YHWH commanded Moshe to make with the children of Israel in the land of Moab, besides the covenant which he made with them in Horeb.
2. Moshe called to all Israel, and said to them, You have seen all that YHWH did before your eyes in the land of Mitzrayim to Pharaoh, and to all his servants, and to all his land;
3. the great trials which your eyes saw, the signs, and those great wonders:
4. but YHWH has not given you a heart to know, and eyes to see, and ears to hear, to this day.
5. I have led you forty years in the wilderness: your clothes have not grown old on you, and your shoe has not grown old on your foot.
6. You have not eaten bread, neither have you drunk wine or strong drink; that you may know that I am YHWH your God.
7. When you came to this place, Sihon the king of Heshbon, and Og the king of Bashan, came out against us to battle, and we struck them:
8. and we took their land, and gave it for an inheritance to the Reubenites, and to the Gadites, and to the half-tribe of the Manassites.
9. Keep therefore the words of this covenant, and do them, that you may prosper in all that you do.
10. You stand this day all of you before YHWH your God; your heads, your tribes, your elders, and your officers, even all the people of Israel,
11. your little ones, your wives, and your foreigner who is in the midst of your camps, from the one who cuts your wood to the one who draws your water;
12. that you may enter into the covenant of YHWH your God, and into his oath, which YHWH your God makes with you this day;
13. that he may establish you this day to himself for a people, and that he may be to you an Elohim, as he spoke to you, and as he swore to your fathers, to Avraham, to Yitzhak, and to Ya'akov.
14. Neither with you only do I make this covenant and this oath,
15. but with the one who stands here with us this day before YHWH our God, and also with the one who is not here with us this day
16. (for you know how we lived in the land of Mitzrayim, and how we came through the midst of the nations through which you passed;
17. and you have seen their abominations, and their idols, wood and stone, silver and gold, which were among them);
18. lest there should be among you man, or woman, or family, or tribe, whose heart turns away this day from YHWH our God, to go to serve the gods of those nations; lest there should be among you a root that bears gall and wormwood;
19. and it happen, when he hears the words of this curse, that he bless himself in his heart, saying, I shall have peace, though I walk in the stubbornness of my heart, to destroy the moist with the dry.
20. YHWH will not pardon him, but then the anger of YHWH and his jealousy will smoke against that man, and all the curse that is written in this book shall lie on him, and YHWH will blot out his name from under the heavens.
21. YHWH will set him apart to brokenness out of all the tribes of Israel, according to all the curses of the covenant that is written in this book of the law.
22. The generation to come, your children who shall rise up after you, and the foreigner who shall come from a far land, shall say, when they see the plagues of that land, and the sicknesses with which YHWH has made it sick;
23. [and that] the whole land of it is sulfur, and salt, [and] a burning, [that] it is not sown, nor bears, nor any grass grows therein, like the overthrow of Sodom and Gomorrah, Admah and Zeboiim, which YHWH overthrew in his anger, and in his wrath:
24. even all the nations shall say, Why has YHWH done thus to this land? what means the heat of this great anger?
25. Then people shall say, Because they forsook the covenant of YHWH, the God of their fathers, which he made with them when he brought them forth out of the land of Mitzrayim,
26. and went and served other gods, and worshiped them, gods that they didn't know, and that he had not given to them:
27. therefore the anger of YHWH was kindled against this land, to bring on it all the curse that is written in this book;
28. and YHWH rooted them out of their land in anger, and in wrath, and in great indignation, and cast them into another land, as at this day.
29. The secret things belong to YHWH our God; but the things that are revealed belong to us and to our children forever, that we may do all the words of this law.

Deuteronomy 30
1. It shall happen, when all these things are come on you, the blessing and the curse, which I have set before you, and you shall call them to mind among all the nations, where YHWH your God has driven you,
2. and shall return to YHWH your God, and shall obey his voice according to all that I command you this day, you and your children, with all your heart, and with all your soul;
3. that then YHWH your God will turn your captivity, and have compassion on you, and will return and gather you from all the peoples, where YHWH your God has scattered you.
4. If [any of] your outcasts are in the uttermost parts of the heavens, from there will YHWH your God gather you, and from there he will bring you back:
5. and YHWH your God will bring you into the land which your fathers possessed, and you shall possess it; and he will do you good, and multiply you above your fathers.
6. YHWH your God will circumcise your heart, and the heart of your seed, to love YHWH your God with all your heart, and with all your soul, that you may live.
7. YHWH your God will put all these curses on your enemies, and on those who hate you, who persecuted you.
8. You shall return and obey the voice of YHWH, and do all his commandments which I command you this day.
9. YHWH your God will make you plenteous in all the work of your hand, in the fruit of your body, and in the fruit of your livestock, and in the fruit of your ground, for good: for YHWH will again rejoice over you for good, as he rejoiced over your fathers;
10. if you shall obey the voice of YHWH your God, to keep his commandments and his statutes which are written in this book of the law; if you turn to YHWH your God with all your heart, and with all your soul.
11. For this commandment which I command you this day, it is not too hard for you, neither is it far off.
12. It is not in heavens, that you should say, Who shall go up for us to heavens, and bring it to us, and make us to hear it, that we may do it?
13. Neither is it beyond the sea, that you should say, Who shall go over the sea for us, and bring it to us, and make us to hear it, that we may do it?
14. But the word is very near to you, in your mouth, and in your heart, that you may do it.
15. Behold, I have set before you this day life and good, and death and brokenness;
16. in that I command you this day to love YHWH your God, to walk in his ways, and to keep his commandments and his statutes and his ordinances, that you may live and multiply, and that YHWH your God may bless you in the land where you go in to possess it.
17. But if your heart turn away, and you will not hear, but shall be drawn away, and worship other gods, and serve them;
18. I denounce to you this day, that you shall surely perish; you shall not prolong your days in the land, where you pass over the Yarden to go in to possess it.
19. I call heavens and earth to witness against you this day, that I have set before you life and death, the blessing and the curse: therefore choose life, that you may live, you and your seed;
20. to love YHWH your God, to obey his voice, and to cleave to him; for he is your life, and the length of your days; that you may dwell in the land which YHWH swore to your fathers, to Avraham, to Yitzhak, and to Ya'akov, to give them.

Deuteronomy 31
1. Moshe went and spoke these words to all Israel.
2. He said to them, I am one hundred twenty years old this day; I can no more go out and come in: and YHWH has said to me, You shall not go over this Yarden.
3. YHWH your God, he will go over before you; he will destroy these nations from before you, and you shall dispossess them: [and] Yehoshua, he shall go over before you, as YHWH has spoken.
4. YHWH will do to them as he did to Sihon and to Og, the kings of the Amorites, and to their land; whom he destroyed.
5. YHWH will deliver them up before you, and you shall do to them according to all the commandment which I have commanded you.
6. Be strong and of good courage, don't be afraid, nor be scared of them: for YHWH your God, he it is who does go with you; he will not fail you, nor forsake you.
7. Moshe called to Yehoshua, and said to him in the sight of all Israel, Be strong and of good courage: for you shall go with this people into the land which YHWH has sworn to their fathers to give them; and you shall cause them to inherit it.
8. YHWH, he it is who does go before you; he will be with you, he will not fail you, neither forsake you: don't be afraid, neither be dismayed.
9. Moshe wrote this law, and delivered it to the priests the sons of Levi, who bore the ark of the covenant of YHWH, and to all the elders of Israel.
10. Moshe commanded them, saying, At the end of [every] seven years, in the set time of the year of release, in the feast of tents,
11. when all Israel is come to appear before YHWH your God in the place which he shall choose, you shall read this law before all Israel in their hearing.
12. Assemble the people, the men and the women and the little ones, and your foreigner who is within your gates, that they may hear, and that they may learn, and revere YHWH your God, and observe to do all the words of this law;
13. and that their children, who have not known, may hear, and learn to revere YHWH your God, as long as you live in the land where you go over the Yarden to possess it.
14. YHWH said to Moshe, Behold, your days approach that you must die: call Yehoshua, and present yourselves in the tent of meeting, that I may give him a charge. Moshe and Yehoshua went, and presented themselves in the tent of meeting.
15. YHWH appeared in the Tent in a pillar of cloud: and the pillar of cloud stood over the door of the Tent.
16. YHWH said to Moshe, Behold, you shall sleep with your fathers; and this people will rise up, and play the prostitute after the strange gods of the land, where they go to be among them, and will forsake me, and break my covenant which I have made with them.
17. Then my anger shall be kindled against them in that day, and I will forsake them, and I will hide my face from them, and they shall be devoured, and many troubles and hardships shall come on them; so that they will say in that day, Haven't these troubles come on us because our God is not among us?
18. I will surely hide my face in that day for all the brokenness which they shall have worked, in that they are turned to other gods.
19. Now therefore write you this song for you, and teach you it the children of Israel: put it in their mouths, that this song may be a witness for me against the children of Israel.
20. For when I shall have brought them into the land which I swore to their fathers, flowing with milk and honey, and they shall have eaten and filled themselves, and grown fat; then will they turn to other gods, and serve them, and despise me, and break my covenant.
21. It shall happen, when many troubles and hardships are come on them, that this song shall testify before them as a witness; for it shall not be forgotten out of the mouths of their seed: for I know their imagination which they frame this day, before I have brought them into the land which I swore.
22. So Moshe wrote this song the same day, and taught it the children of Israel.
23. He gave Yehoshua the son of Nun a charge, and said, Be strong and of good courage; for you shall bring the children of Israel into the land which I swore to them: and I will be with you.
24. It happened, when Moshe had made an end of writing the words of this law in a book, until they were finished,
25. that Moshe commanded the Levites, who bore the ark of the covenant of YHWH, saying,
26. Take this book of the law, and put it by the side of the ark of the covenant of YHWH your God, that it may be there for a witness against you.
27. For I know your rebellion, and your stiff neck: behold, while I am yet alive with you this day, you have been rebellious against YHWH; and how much more after my death?
28. Assemble to me all the elders of your tribes, and your officers, that I may speak these words in their ears, and call heavens and earth to witness against them.
29. For I know that after my death you will utterly corrupt yourselves, and turn aside from the way which I have commanded you; and brokenness will happen to you in the latter days; because you will do that which is brokenness in the sight of YHWH, to provoke him to anger through the work of your hands.
30. Moshe spoke in the ears of all the assembly of Israel the words of this song, until they were finished.

Deuteronomy 32
1. Give ear, you heavens, and I will speak. Let the earth hear the words of my mouth.
2. My doctrine shall drop as the rain. My speech shall condense as the dew, as the small rain on the tender grass, as the showers on the herb.
3. For I will proclaim the name of YHWH. Ascribe greatness to our God!
4. The Rock, his work is perfect, for all his ways are justice: a God of faithfulness and without iniquity, just and right is he.
5. They have dealt corruptly with him, [they are] not his children, [it is] their blemish. [They are] a perverse and crooked generation.
6. Do you thus requite YHWH, foolish people and unwise? Isn't he your father who has bought you? He has made you, and established you.
7. Remember the days of old. Consider the years of many generations. Ask your father, and he will show you; your elders, and they will tell you.
8. When the Most High gave to the nations their inheritance, when he separated the children of people, he set the bounds of the peoples according to the number of the children of Israel.
9. For YHWH's portion is his people. Ya'akov is the lot of his inheritance.
10. He found him in a desert land, in the waste howling wilderness. He surrounded him. He cared for him. He kept him as the apple of his eye.
11. As an eagle that stirs up her nest, that flutters over her young, he spread abroad his wings, he took them, he bore them on his feathers.
12. YHWH alone led him. There was no foreign god with him.
13. He made him ride on the high places of the earth. He ate the increase of the field. He caused him to suck honey out of the rock, oil out of the flinty rock;
14. Butter of the herd, and milk of the flock, with fat of lambs, rams of the breed of Bashan, and goats, with the finest of the wheat. Of the blood of the grape you drank wine.
15. But Jeshurun grew fat, and kicked. You have grown fat. You have grown thick. You have become sleek. Then he forsook Elohim, the one who made him, and lightly esteemed the Rock of his salvation.
16. They moved him to jealousy with strange [gods]. They provoked him to anger with abominations.
17. They sacrificed to demons, [which were] no Elohim, to gods that they didn't know, to new [gods] that came up of late, which your fathers didn't dread.
18. Of the Rock who became your father, you are unmindful, and have forgotten Elohim, the one who gave you birth.
19. YHWH saw [it], and abhorred [them], because of the provocation of his sons and his daughters.
20. He said, I will hide my face from them. I will see what their end shall be; for they are a very perverse generation, children in whom is no faithfulness.
21. They have moved me to jealousy with that which is not Elohim. They have provoked me to anger with their vanities. I will move them to jealousy with those who are not a people. I will provoke them to anger with a foolish nation.
22. For a fire is kindled in my anger, Burns to the lowest Sheol, Devours the earth with its increase, and sets the foundations of the mountains on fire.
23. I will heap troubles on them. I will spend my arrows on them.
24. [They shall be] wasted with hunger, and devoured with burning heat and bitter destruction. I will send the teeth of animals on them, With the poison of crawling things of the dust.
25. Outside the sword shall bereave, and in the chambers, terror; on both young person and virgin, The suckling with the gray-haired man.
26. I said, I would scatter them afar. I would make the memory of them to cease from among men;
27. were it not that I feared the provocation of the enemy, lest their adversaries should judge wrongly, lest they should say, Our hand is exalted, YHWH has not done all this.
28. For they are a nation void of counsel. There is no understanding in them.
29. Oh that they were wise, that they understood this, that they would consider their latter end!
30. How could one chase a thousand, and two put ten thousand to flight, unless their Rock had sold them, and YHWH had delivered them up?
31. For their rock is not as our Rock, even our enemies themselves being judges.
32. For their vine is of the vine of Sodom, of the fields of Gomorrah. Their grapes are grapes of gall, Their clusters are bitter.
33. Their wine is the poison of serpents, The cruel venom of asps.
34. Isn't this laid up in store with me, sealed up among my treasures?
35. Vengeance is mine, and recompense, at the time when their foot slides; for the day of their calamity is at hand. The things that are to come on them shall make haste.
36. For YHWH will judge his people, and have compassion on his servants, when he sees that [their] power is gone, There is none [remaining], shut up or left at large.
37. He will say, Where are their gods, The rock in which they took refuge;
38. Which ate the fat of their sacrifices, And drank the wine of their drink offering? Let them rise up and help you! Let them be your protection.
39. See now that I, even I, am he, There is no god with me. I kill, and I make alive. I wound, and I heal. There is no one who can deliver out of my hand.
40. For I lift up my hand to heavens, And say, As I live forever,
41. if I whet my glittering sword, My hand take hold on judgment; I will render vengeance to my adversaries, and will recompense those who hate me.
42. I will make my arrows drunk with blood. My sword shall devour flesh with the blood of the slain and the captives, from the head of the leaders of the enemy.
43. Rejoice, you nations, [with] his people, for he will avenge the blood of his servants. He will render vengeance to his adversaries, And will make expiation for his land, for his people.
44. Moshe came and spoke all the words of this song in the ears of the people, he and Yehoshua the son of Nun.
45. Moshe made an end of speaking all these words to all Israel;
46. He said to them, Set your heart to all the words which I testify to you this day, which you shall command your children to observe to do, [even] all the words of this law.
47. For it is no vain thing for you; because it is your life, and through this thing you shall prolong your days in the land, where you go over the Yarden to possess it.
48. YHWH spoke to Moshe that same day, saying,
49. Go up into this mountain of Abarim, to Mount Nebo, which is in the land of Moab, that is over against Yericho; and see the land of Canaan, which I give to the children of Israel for a possession;
50. and die on the mountain where you go up, and be gathered to your people, as Aharon your brother died on Mount Hor, and was gathered to his people:
51. because you trespassed against me in the midst of the children of Israel at the waters of Meribah of Kadesh, in the wilderness of Zin; because you didn't sanctify me in the midst of the children of Israel.
52. For you shall see the land before you; but you shall not go there into the land which I give the children of Israel.

Deuteronomy 33
1. This is the blessing, with which Moshe the person of Elohim blessed the children of Israel before their death.
2. He said, YHWH came from Sinai, And rose from Seir to them. He shone forth from Mount Paran. He came from the ten thousands of holy ones. At his right hand was a fiery law for them.
3. Yes, he loves the people. All his saints are in your hand. They sat down at your feet; [Everyone] shall receive of your words.
4. Moshe commanded us a law, An inheritance for the assembly of Ya'akov.
5. He was king in Jeshurun, When the heads of the people were gathered, All the tribes of Israel together.
6. Let Reuven live, and not die; Nor let his men be few.
7. This is [the blessing] of Yehudah: and he said, Hear, YHWH, the voice of Yehudah. Bring him in to his people. With his hands he contended for himself. You shall be a help against his adversaries.
8. Of Levi he said, Your Thummim and your Urim are with your godly one, whom you proved at Massah, with whom you strove at the waters of Meribah;
9. who said of his father, and of his mother, I have not seen him; Neither did he acknowledge his brothers, Nor did he know his own children: For they have observed your word, and keep your covenant.
10. They shall teach Ya'akov your ordinances, and Israel your law. They shall put incense before you, and whole burnt offering on your altar.
11. YHWH, bless his substance. Accept the work of his hands. Strike through the hips of those who rise up against him, of those who hate him, that they not rise again.
12. Of Binyamin he said, The beloved of YHWH shall dwell in safety by him. He covers him all the day long. He dwells between his shoulders.
13. Of Yosef he said, His land is blessed by YHWH, for the precious things of the heavens, for the dew, for the deep that couches beneath,
14. for the precious things of the fruits of the sun, for the precious things of the growth of the moons,
15. for the chief things of the ancient mountains, for the precious things of the everlasting hills,
16. for the precious things of the earth and its fullness, the good will of the one who lived in the bush. Let [the blessing] come on the head of Yosef, On the crown of the head of the one who was separate from their brothers.
17. The firstborn of his herd, majesty is his. His horns are the horns of the wild ox. With them he shall push the peoples all of them, [even] the ends of the earth: They are the ten thousands of Efrayim. They are the thousands of Menashe.
18. Of Zevulun he said, Rejoice, Zevulun, in your going out; and Yissakhar, in your tents.
19. They shall call the peoples to the mountain. There they will offer sacrifices of righteousness, for they shall draw out the abundance of the seas, the hidden treasures of the sand.
20. Of Gad they said, The one who enlarges Gad is blessed. He dwells as a lioness, and tears the arm, yes, the crown of the head.
21. He provided the first part for himself, for there was the lawgiver's portion reserved. He came [with] the heads of the people. He executed the righteousness of YHWH, His ordinances with Israel.
22. Of Dan he said, Dan is a lion's cub that leaps out of Bashan.
23. Of Naphtali he said, Naphtali, satisfied with favor, full of the blessing of YHWH, Possess the west and the south.
24. Of Asher he said, Asher is blessed with children. Let him be acceptable to his brothers. Let him dip his foot in oil.
25. Your bars shall be iron and brass. As your days, so shall your strength be.
26. There is none like Elohim, Jeshurun, who rides on the heavens for your help, In his excellency on the skies.
27. The eternal Elohim is [your] dwelling place. Underneath are the everlasting arms. He thrust out the enemy from before you, and said, Destroy.
28. Israel dwells in safety; the fountain of Ya'akov alone, In a land of grain and new wine. Yes, his heavens drop down dew.
29. You are happy, Israel. Who is like you, a people saved by YHWH, the shield of your help, the sword of your excellency! Your enemies shall submit themselves to you. You shall tread on their high places.

Deuteronomy 34
1. Moshe went up from the plains of Moab to Mount Nebo, to the top of Pisgah, that is over against Yericho. YHWH showed him all the land of Gilead, to Dan,
2. and all Naphtali, and the land of Efrayim and Menashe, and all the land of Yehudah, to the hinder sea,
3. and the South, and the Plain of the valley of Yericho the city of palm trees, to Zoar.
4. YHWH said to him, This is the land which I swore to Avraham, to Yitzhak, and to Ya'akov, saying, I will give it to your seed: I have caused you to see it with your eyes, but you shall not go over there.
5. So Moshe the servant of YHWH died there in the land of Moab, according to the word of YHWH.
6. They buried him in the valley in the land of Moab over against Beth Peor: but no one knows of their tomb to this day.
7. Moshe was one hundred twenty years old when he died: his eye was not dim, nor his natural force abated.
8. The children of Israel wept for Moshe in the plains of Moab thirty days: so the days of weeping in the mourning for Moshe were ended.
9. Yehoshua the son of Nun was full of the spirit of wisdom; for Moshe had laid his hands on him: and the children of Israel listened to him, and did as YHWH commanded Moshe.
10. There has not arisen a prophet since in Israel like Moshe, whom YHWH knew face to face,
11. in all the signs and the wonders, which YHWH sent him to do in the land of Mitzrayim, to Pharaoh, and to all his servants, and to all his land,
12. and in all the mighty hand, and in all the great terror, which Moshe worked in the sight of all Israel.

Joshua 1
1. Now it happened after the death of Moshe the servant of YHWH, that YHWH spoke to Yehoshua the son of Nun, Moshe' servant, saying,
2. Moshe my servant is dead; now therefore arise, go over this Yarden, you, and all this people, to the land which I give to them, even to the children of Israel.
3. I have given you every place that the sole of your foot will tread on, as I told Moshe.
4. From the wilderness, and this Levanon, even to the great river, the river Perat, all the land of the Hittites, and to the great sea toward the going down of the sun, shall be your border.
5. No one will be able to stand before you all the days of your life. As I was with Moshe, so I will be with you. I will not fail you nor forsake you.
6. Be strong and of good courage; for you shall cause this people to inherit the land which I swore to their fathers to give them.
7. Only be strong and very courageous, to observe to do according to all the law, which Moshe my servant commanded you. Don't turn from it to the right hand or to the left, that you may have good success wherever you go.
8. This book of the law shall not depart out of your mouth, but you shall meditate on it day and night, that you may observe to do according to all that is written therein: for then you shall make your way prosperous, and then you shall have good success.
9. Haven't I commanded you? Be strong and of good courage. Don't be afraid, neither be dismayed: for YHWH your God is with you wherever you go.
10. Then Yehoshua commanded the officers of the people, saying,
11. "Pass through the midst of the camp, and command the people, saying, 'Prepare food; for within three days you are to pass over this Yarden, to go in to possess the land, which YHWH your God gives you to possess it.'"
12. Yehoshua spoke to the Reubenites, and to the Gadites, and to the half-tribe of Menashe, saying,
13. "Remember the word which Moshe the servant of YHWH commanded you, saying, 'YHWH your God gives you rest, and will give you this land.
14. Your wives, your little ones, and your livestock, shall live in the land which Moshe gave you beyond the Yarden; but you shall pass over before your brothers armed, all the mighty men of valor, and shall help them
15. until YHWH has given your brothers rest, as he has given you, and they have also possessed the land which YHWH your God gives them. Then you shall return to the land of your possession, and possess it, which Moshe the servant of YHWH gave you beyond the Yarden toward the sunrise.'"
16. They answered Yehoshua, saying, "All that you have commanded us we will do, and wherever you send us we will go.
17. Just as we listened to Moshe in all things, so will we listen to you. Only may YHWH your God be with you, as he was with Moshe.
18. Whoever rebels against your commandment, and doesn't listen to your words in all that you command him, they shall be put to death. Only be strong and of good courage."

Joshua 2
1. Yehoshua the son of Nun secretly sent two men out of Shittim as spies, saying, "Go, view the land, and Yericho." They went and came into the house of a prostitute whose name was Rahab, and slept there.
2. The king of Yericho was told, "Behold, men of the children of Israel came in here tonight to spy out the land."
3. The king of Yericho sent to Rahab, saying, "Bring out the people who have come to you, who have entered into your house; for they have come to spy out all the land."
4. The woman took the two men and hid them. Then she said, "Yes, the men came to me, but I didn't know where they came from.
5. It happened about the time of the shutting of the gate, when it was dark, that the men went out. Where the men went, I don't know. Pursue them quickly; for you will overtake them."
6. But she had brought them up to the roof, and hid them with the stalks of flax, which she had laid in order on the roof.
7. The men pursued them the way to the Yarden to the fords: and as soon as those who pursued them had gone out, they shut the gate.
8. Before they had laid down, she came up to them on the roof;
9. and she said to the men, "I know that YHWH has given you the land, and that the fear of you has fallen on us, and that all the inhabitants of the land melt away before you.
10. For we have heard how YHWH dried up the water of the Red Sea before you, when you came out of Mitzrayim; and what you did to the two kings of the Amorites, who were beyond the Yarden, to Sihon and to Og, whom you utterly destroyed.
11. As soon as we had heard it, our hearts melted, neither did there remain any more spirit in anyone, because of you: for YHWH your God, they are Elohim in heavens above, and on earth beneath.
12. Now therefore, please swear to me by YHWH, since I have dealt kindly with you, that you also will deal kindly with my father's house, and give me a true token;
13. and that you will save alive my father, my mother, my brothers, and my sisters, and all that they have, and will deliver our lives from death."
14. The men said to her, "Our life for yours, if you don't talk about this business of ours; and it shall be, when YHWH gives us the land, that we will deal kindly and truly with you."
15. Then she let them down by a cord through the window; for her house was on the side of the wall, and she lived on the wall.
16. She said to them, "Go to the mountain, lest the pursuers find you; and hide yourselves there three days, until the pursuers have returned. Afterward, you may go your way."
17. The men said to her, "We will be guiltless of this your oath which you have made us to swear.
18. Behold, when we come into the land, you shall bind this line of scarlet thread in the window which you did let us down by. You shall gather to yourself into the house your father, your mother, your brothers, and all your father's household.
19. It shall be that whoever goes out of the doors of your house into the street, their blood will be on their head, and we will be guiltless. Whoever is with you in the house, their blood shall be on our head, if any hand is on him.
20. But if you talk about this business of ours, then we shall be guiltless of your oath which you have made us to swear."
21. She said, "According to your words, so be it." She sent them away, and they departed. She tied the scarlet line in the window.
22. They went, and came to the mountain, and stayed there three days, until the pursuers had returned. The pursuers sought them throughout all the way, but didn't find them.
23. Then the two men returned, descended from the mountain, passed over, and came to Yehoshua the son of Nun; and they told him all that had happened to them.
24. They said to Yehoshua, "Truly YHWH has delivered into our hands all the land. Moreover, all the inhabitants of the land melt away before us."

Joshua 3
1. Yehoshua rose up early in the morning; and they moved from Shittim, and came to the Yarden, he and all the children of Israel. They lodged there before they passed over.
2. It happened after three days, that the officers went through the midst of the camp;
3. and they commanded the people, saying, "When you see the ark of the covenant of YHWH your God, and the priests the Levites bearing it, then you shall move from your place, and follow it.
4. Yet there shall be a space between you and it, about two thousand cubits by measure. Don't come near to it, that you may know the way by which you must go; for you have not passed this way before."
5. Yehoshua said to the people, "Sanctify yourselves; for tomorrow YHWH will do wonders among you."
6. Yehoshua spoke to the priests, saying, "Take up the ark of the covenant, and pass over before the people." They took up the ark of the covenant, and went before the people.
7. YHWH said to Yehoshua, "Today I will begin to magnify you in the sight of all Israel, that they may know that as I was with Moshe, so I will be with you.
8. You shall command the priests who bear the ark of the covenant, saying, 'When you come to the brink of the waters of the Yarden, you shall stand still in the Yarden.'"
9. Yehoshua said to the children of Israel, "Come here, and hear the words of YHWH your God."
10. Yehoshua said, "Hereby you shall know that the living Elohim is among you, and that he will without fail drive the Canaanite, and the Hittite, and the Hivite, and the Perizzite, and the Girgashite, and the Amorite, and the Jebusite out from before you.
11. Behold, the ark of the covenant of YHWH of all the earth passes over before you into the Yarden.
12. Now therefore take twelve men out of the tribes of Israel, for every tribe a person.
13. It shall come to pass, when the soles of the feet of the priests who bear the ark of YHWH, YHWH of all the earth, rest in the waters of the Yarden, that the waters of the Yarden will be cut off, even the waters that come down from above; and they shall stand in one heap."
14. It happened, when the people moved from their tents to pass over the Yarden, the priests who bore the ark of the covenant being before the people,
15. and when those who bore the ark had come to the Yarden, and the feet of the priests who bore the ark had dipped in the edge of the water (for the Yarden overflows all its banks all the time of harvest),
16. that the waters which came down from above stood, and rose up in one heap, a great way off, at Adam, the city that is beside Zarethan; and those that went down toward the sea of the Arabah, even the Salt Sea, were wholly cut off. Then the people passed over right against Yericho.
17. The priests who bore the ark of the covenant of YHWH stood firm on dry ground in the middle of the Yarden; and all Israel passed over on dry ground, until all the nation had passed completely over the Yarden.

Joshua 4
1. It happened, when all the nation had completely passed over the Yarden, that YHWH spoke to Yehoshua, saying,
2. "Take twelve men out of the people, out of every tribe a person,
3. and command them, saying, 'Take from out of the middle of the Yarden, out of the place where the priests' feet stood firm, twelve stones, and carry them over with you, and lay them down in the lodging place, where you will lodge tonight.'"
4. Then Yehoshua called the twelve men, whom they had prepared of the children of Israel, out of every tribe a person.
5. Yehoshua said to them, "Pass over before the ark of YHWH your God into the middle of the Yarden, and each of you pick up a stone and put it on your shoulder, according to the number of the tribes of the children of Israel;
6. that this may be a sign among you, that when your children ask in time to come, saying, 'What do you mean by these stones?'
7. then you shall tell them, 'Because the waters of the Yarden were cut off before the ark of the covenant of YHWH. When it passed over the Yarden, the waters of the Yarden were cut off. These stones shall be for a memorial to the children of Israel forever.'"
8. The children of Israel did as Yehoshua commanded, and took up twelve stones out of the middle of the Yarden, as YHWH spoke to Yehoshua, according to the number of the tribes of the children of Israel; and they carried them over with them to the place where they lodged, and laid them down there.
9. Yehoshua set up twelve stones in the middle of the Yarden, in the place where the feet of the priests who bore the ark of the covenant stood; and they are there to this day.
10. For the priests who bore the ark stood in the middle of the Yarden, until everything was finished that YHWH commanded Yehoshua to speak to the people, according to all that Moshe commanded Yehoshua; and the people hurried and passed over.
11. It happened, when all the people had completely passed over, that the ark of YHWH passed over, with the priests, in the presence of the people.
12. The children of Reuven, and the children of Gad, and the half-tribe of Menashe, passed over armed before the children of Israel, as Moshe spoke to them.
13. About forty thousand men, ready and armed for war passed over before YHWH to battle, to the plains of Yericho.
14. On that day, YHWH magnified Yehoshua in the sight of all Israel; and they feared him, as they feared Moshe, all the days of his life.
15. YHWH spoke to Yehoshua, saying,
16. "Command the priests who bear the ark of the testimony, that they come up out of the Yarden."
17. Yehoshua therefore commanded the priests, saying, "Come up out of the Yarden!"
18. It happened, when the priests who bore the ark of the covenant of YHWH had come up out of the middle of the Yarden, and the soles of the priests' feet were lifted up to the dry ground, that the waters of the Yarden returned to their place, and went over all its banks, as before.
19. The people came up out of the Yarden on the tenth day of the first month, and encamped in Gilgal, on the east border of Yericho.
20. Yehoshua set up those twelve stones, which they took out of the Yarden, n Gilgal.
21. He spoke to the children of Israel, saying, "When your children ask their fathers in time to come, saying, 'What do these stones mean?'
22. Then you shall let your children know, saying, 'Israel came over this Yarden on dry land.
23. For YHWH your God dried up the waters of the Yarden from before you, until you had passed over, as YHWH your God did to the Red Sea, which he dried up from before us, until we had passed over;
24. that all the peoples of the earth may know the hand of YHWH, that it is mighty; that you may revere YHWH your God forever.'"

Joshua 5
1. It happened, when all the kings of the Amorites, who were beyond the Yarden westward, and all the kings of the Canaanites, who were by the sea, heard how that YHWH had dried up the waters of the Yarden from before the children of Israel, until we had passed over, that their heart melted, neither was there spirit in them any more, because of the children of Israel.
2. At that time, YHWH said to Yehoshua, "Make flint knives, and circumcise again the children of Israel the second time."
3. Yehoshua made himself flint knives, and circumcised the children of Israel at the hill of the foreskins.
4. This is the reason Yehoshua circumcised: all the people who came out of Mitzrayim, who were males, even all the men of war, died in the wilderness by the way, after they came out of Mitzrayim.
5. For all the people who came out were circumcised; but all the people who were born in the wilderness by the way as they came out of Mitzrayim had not been circumcised.
6. For the children of Israel walked forty years in the wilderness, until all the nation, even the men of war who came out of Mitzrayim, were consumed, because they didn't listen to the voice of YHWH. YHWH swore to them that he wouldn't let them see the land which YHWH swore to their fathers that he would give us, a land flowing with milk and honey.
7. Their children, whom he raised up in their place, were circumcised by Yehoshua; for they were uncircumcised, because they had not circumcised them on the way.
8. It happened, when they were done circumcising all the nation, that they stayed in their places in the camp until they were healed.
9. YHWH said to Yehoshua, "Today I have rolled away the reproach of Mitzrayim from off you." Therefore the name of that place was called Gilgal, to this day.
10. The children of Israel encamped in Gilgal. They kept the Passover on the fourteenth day of the month at evening in the plains of Yericho.
11. They ate unleavened cakes and parched grain of the produce of the land on the next day after the Passover, in the same day.
12. The manna ceased on the next day, after they had eaten of the produce of the land. The children of Israel didn't have manna any more; but they ate of the fruit of the land of Canaan that year.
13. It happened, when Yehoshua was by Yericho, that they lifted up their eyes and looked, and behold, a person stood in front of him with their sword drawn in their hand. Yehoshua went to him, and said to him, "Are you for us, or for our adversaries?"
14. He said, "No; but I have come now as commander of YHWH's army." Yehoshua fell on his face to the earth, and worshipped, and said to him, "What does my lord say to his servant?"
15. The prince of YHWH's army said to Yehoshua, "Take your shoes off of your feet; for the place on which you stand is holy." Yehoshua did so.

Joshua 6
1. Now Yericho was tightly shut up because of the children of Israel. No one went out, and no one came in.
2. YHWH said to Yehoshua, "Behold, I have given Yericho into your hand, with its king and the mighty men of valor.
3. All your men of war shall march around the city, going around the city once. You shall do this six days.
4. Seven priests shall bear seven trumpets of rams' horns before the ark. On the seventh day, you shall march around the city seven times, and the priests shall blow the trumpets.
5. It shall be that when they make a long blast with the ram's horn, and when you hear the sound of the trumpet, all the people shall shout with a great shout; and the wall of the city shall fall down flat, and the people shall go up everyone straight before him."
6. Yehoshua the son of Nun called the priests, and said to them, "Take up the ark of the covenant, and let seven priests bear seven trumpets of rams' horns before the ark of YHWH."
7. They said to the people, "Advance! March around the city, and let the armed men pass on before YHWH's ark."
8. It was so, that when Yehoshua had spoken to the people, the seven priests bearing the seven trumpets of rams' horns before YHWH advanced, and blew the trumpets; and the ark of the covenant of YHWH followed them.
9. The armed men went before the priests who blew the trumpets, and the ark went after them. The trumpets sounded as they went.
10. Yehoshua commanded the people, saying, "You shall not shout, nor let your voice be heard, neither shall any word proceed out of your mouth, until the day I tell you to shout. Then you shall shout."
11. So he caused the ark of YHWH to go around the city, going about it once. Then they came into the camp, and lodged in the camp.
12. Yehoshua rose early in the morning, and the priests took up the ark of YHWH.
13. The seven priests bearing the seven trumpets of rams' horns before the ark of YHWH went on continually, and blew the trumpets: and the armed men went before them. The rear guard came after the ark of YHWH. The trumpets sounded as they went.
14. The second day they marched around the city once, and returned into the camp. They did this six days.
15. It happened on the seventh day, that they rose early at the dawning of the day, and marched around the city in the same way seven times. Only on this day they marched around the city seven times.
16. It happened at the seventh time, when the priests blew the trumpets, Yehoshua said to the people, "Shout, for YHWH has given you the city!
17. The city shall be devoted, even it and all that is in it, to YHWH. Only Rahab the prostitute shall live, she and all who are with her in the house, because she hid the messengers that we sent.
18. But as for you, only keep yourselves from the devoted thing, lest when you have devoted it, you take of the devoted thing; so would you make the camp of Israel accursed, and trouble it.
19. But all the silver, and gold, and vessels of brass and iron, are holy to YHWH. They shall come into YHWH's treasury."
20. So the people shouted, and the priests blew the trumpets. It happened, when the people heard the sound of the trumpet, that the people shouted with a great shout, and the wall fell down flat, so that the people went up into the city, everyone straight before him, and they took the city.
21. They utterly destroyed all that was in the city, both man and woman, both young and old, and ox, and sheep, and donkey, with the edge of the sword.
22. Yehoshua said to the two people who had spied out the land, "Go into the prostitute's house, and bring out from there the woman and all that she has, as you swore to her."
23. The young people who were spies went in, and brought out Rahab with her father, her mother, her brothers, and all that she had. They also brought out all her relatives, and they set them outside of the camp of Israel.
24. They burnt the city with fire, and all that was in it. Only they put the silver, the gold, and the vessels of brass and of iron into the treasury of YHWH's house.
25. But Rahab the prostitute, her father's household, and all that she had, Yehoshua saved alive. She lived in the midst of Israel to this day, because she hid the messengers, whom Yehoshua sent to spy out Yericho.
26. Yehoshua charged them with an oath at that time, saying, "Cursed be the person before YHWH, who rises up and builds this city Yericho. With the loss of his firstborn shall he lay its foundation, and with the loss of his youngest son shall he set up its gates."
27. So YHWH was with Yehoshua; and his fame was in all the land.

Joshua 7
1. But the children of Israel committed a trespass in the devoted thing; for Achan, the son of Carmi, the son of Zabdi, the son of Zerah, of the tribe of Yehudah, took of the devoted thing: and the anger of YHWH was kindled against the children of Israel.
2. Yehoshua sent men from Yericho to Ai, which is beside Beth Aven, on the east side of Beit El, and spoke to them, saying, Go up and spy out the land. The men went up and spied out Ai.
3. They returned to Yehoshua, and said to him, Don't let all the people go up; but let about two or three thousand men go up and strike Ai; don't make all the people to toil there; for they are but few.
4. So there went up there of the people about three thousand men: and they fled before the men of Ai.
5. The men of Ai struck of them about thirty-six men; and they chased them [from] before the gate even to Shebarim, and struck them at the descent; and the hearts of the people melted, and became as water.
6. Yehoshua tore his clothes, and fell to the earth on his face before the ark of YHWH until the evening, he and the elders of Israel; and they put dust on their heads.
7. Yehoshua said, Alas, YHWH God, why have you at all brought this people over the Yarden, to deliver us into the hand of the Amorites, to cause us to perish? would that we had been content and lived beyond the Yarden!
8. Oh, YHWH, what shall I say, after that Israel has turned their backs before their enemies!
9. For the Canaanites and all the inhabitants of the land will hear of it, and will compass us round, and cut off our name from the earth: and what will you do for your great name?
10. YHWH said to Yehoshua, Get you up; why are you thus fallen on your face?
11. Israel has sinned; yes, they have even transgressed my covenant which I commanded them: yes, they have even taken of the devoted thing, and have also stolen, and dissembled also; and they have even put it among their own stuff.
12. Therefore the children of Israel can't stand before their enemies; they turn their backs before their enemies, because they are become accursed: I will not be with you any more, except you destroy the devoted thing from among you.
13. Up, sanctify the people, and say, Sanctify yourselves against tomorrow: for thus says YHWH, the God of Israel, There is a devoted thing in the midst of you, Israel; you can not stand before your enemies, until you take away the devoted thing from among you.
14. In the morning therefore you shall be brought near by your tribes: and it shall be, that the tribe which YHWH takes shall come near by families; and the family which YHWH shall take shall come near by households; and the household which YHWH shall take shall come near man by man.
15. It shall be, that the one who is taken with the devoted thing shall be burnt with fire, they and all that they have; because he has transgressed the covenant of YHWH, and because he has done folly in Israel.
16. So Yehoshua rose up early in the morning, and brought Israel near by their tribes; and the tribe of Yehudah was taken:
17. and he brought near the family of Yehudah; and he took the family of the Zerahites: and he brought near the family of the Zerahites man by man; and Zabdi was taken:
18. and he brought near his household man by man; and Achan, the son of Carmi, the son of Zabdi, the son of Zerah, of the tribe of Yehudah, was taken.
19. Yehoshua said to Achan, My son, please give glory to YHWH, the God of Israel, and make confession to him; and tell me now what you have done; don't hide it from me.
20. Achan answered Yehoshua, and said, Of a truth I have sinned against YHWH, the God of Israel, and thus and thus have I done:
21. when I saw among the spoil a goodly Babylonian mantle, and two hundred shekels of silver, and a wedge of gold of fifty shekels weight, then I coveted them, and took them; and, behold, they are hid in the earth in the midst of my tent, and the silver under it.
22. So Yehoshua sent messengers, and they ran to the tent; and, behold, it was hid in his tent, and the silver under it.
23. They took them from the midst of the tent, and brought them to Yehoshua, and to all the children of Israel; and they laid them down before YHWH.
24. Yehoshua, and all Israel with him, took Achan the son of Zerah, and the silver, and the mantle, and the wedge of gold, and his sons, and his daughters, and his oxen, and his donkeys, and his sheep, and his tent, and all that he had: and they brought them up to the valley of Achor.
25. Yehoshua said, Why have you troubled us? YHWH shall trouble you this day. All Israel stoned him with stones; and they burned them with fire, and stoned them with stones.
26. They raised over him a great heap of stones, to this day; and YHWH turned from the fierceness of his anger. Therefore the name of that place was called "The valley of Achor" to this day.

Joshua 8
1. YHWH said to Yehoshua, Don't be afraid, neither be dismayed: take all the people of war with you, and arise, go up to Ai; behold, I have given into your hand the king of Ai, and his people, and his city, and his land;
2. You shall do to Ai and her king as you did to Yericho and her king: only the spoil of it, and the livestock of it, shall you take for a prey to yourselves: set you an ambush for the city behind it.
3. So Yehoshua arose, and all the people of war, to go up to Ai: and Yehoshua chose out thirty thousand men, the mighty men of valor, and sent them forth by night.
4. He commanded them, saying, Behold, you shall lie in ambush against the city, behind the city; don't go very far from the city, but be all ready:
5. and I, and all the people who are with me, will approach to the city. It shall happen, when they come out against us, as at the first, that we will flee before them;
6. and they will come out after us, until we have drawn them away from the city; for they will say, They flee before us, as at the first: so we will flee before them;
7. and you shall rise up from the ambush, and take possession of the city: for YHWH your God will deliver it into your hand.
8. It shall be, when you have seized on the city, that you shall set the city on fire; according to the word of YHWH shall you do: behold, I have commanded you.
9. Yehoshua sent them forth; and they went to set up the ambush, and stayed between Beit El and Ai, on the west side of Ai: but Yehoshua lodged that night among the people.
10. Yehoshua arose up early in the morning, and mustered the people, and went up, he and the elders of Israel, before the people to Ai.
11. All the people, [even] the [men of] war who were with him, went up, and drew near, and came before the city, and encamped on the north side of Ai: now there was a valley between him and Ai.
12. He took about five thousand men, and set them in ambush between Beit El and Ai, on the west side of the city.
13. So they set the people, even all the army who was on the north of the city, and their ambush on the west of the city; and Yehoshua went that night into the midst of the valley.
14. It happened, when the king of Ai saw it, that they hurried and rose up early, and the men of the city went out against Israel to battle, he and all his people, at the time appointed, before the Arabah; but he didn't know that there was an ambush against him behind the city.
15. Yehoshua and all Israel made as if they were beaten before them, and fled by the way of the wilderness.
16. All the people who were in the city were called together to pursue after them: and they pursued after Yehoshua, and were drawn away from the city.
17. There was not a person left in Ai or Beth El, who didn't go out after Israel: and they left the city open, and pursued after Israel.
18. YHWH said to Yehoshua, Stretch out the javelin that is in your hand toward Ai; for I will give it into your hand. Yehoshua stretched out the javelin that was in his hand toward the city.
19. The ambush arose quickly out of their place, and they ran as soon as he had stretched out his hand, and entered into the city, and took it; and they hurried and set the city on fire.
20. When the men of Ai looked behind them, they saw, and behold, the smoke of the city ascended up to heavens, and they had no power to flee this way or that way: and the people who fled to the wilderness turned back on the pursuers.
21. When Yehoshua and all Israel saw that the ambush had taken the city, and that the smoke of the city ascended, then they turned again, and killed the men of Ai.
22. The others came forth out of the city against them; so they were in the midst of Israel, some on this side, and some on that side: and they struck them, so that they let none of them remain or escape.
23. The king of Ai they took alive, and brought him to Yehoshua.
24. It happened, when Israel had made an end of killing all the inhabitants of Ai in the field, in the wilderness in which they pursued them, and they were all fallen by the edge of the sword, until they were consumed, that all Israel returned to Ai, and struck it with the edge of the sword.
25. All that fell that day, both of people and women, were twelve thousand, even all the men of Ai.
26. For Yehoshua didn't draw back his hand, with which he stretched out the javelin, until he had utterly destroyed all the inhabitants of Ai.
27. Only the livestock and the spoil of that city Israel took for prey to themselves, according to the word of YHWH which he commanded Yehoshua.
28. So Yehoshua burnt Ai, and made it a heap forever, even a desolation, to this day.
29. The king of Ai he hanged on a tree until the evening: and at the going down of the sun Yehoshua commanded, and they took his body down from the tree, and cast it at the entrance of the gate of the city, and raised thereon a great heap of stones, to this day.
30. Then Yehoshua built an altar to YHWH, the God of Israel, in Mount Ebal,
31. as Moshe the servant of YHWH commanded the children of Israel, as it is written in the book of the law of Moshe, an altar of uncut stones, on which no one had lifted up any iron: and they offered thereon burnt offerings to YHWH, and sacrificed peace offerings.
32. He wrote there on the stones a copy of the law of Moshe, which he wrote, in the presence of the children of Israel.
33. All Israel, and their elders and officers, and their judges, stood on this side of the ark and on that side before the priests the Levites, who bore the ark of the covenant of YHWH, as well the foreigner as the native; half of them in front of Mount Gerizim, and half of them in front of Mount Ebal; as Moshe the servant of YHWH had commanded at the first, that they should bless the people of Israel.
34. Afterward he read all the words of the law, the blessing and the curse, according to all that is written in the book of the law.
35. There was not a word of all that Moshe commanded, which Yehoshua didn't read before all the assembly of Israel, and the women, and the little ones, and the foreigners who were among them.

Joshua 9
1. It happened, when all the kings who were beyond the Yarden, in the hill country, and in the lowland, and on all the shore of the great sea in front of Levanon, the Hittite, and the Amorite, the Canaanite, the Perizzite, the Hivite, and the Jebusite, heard of it;
2. that they gathered themselves together, to fight with Yehoshua and with Israel, with one accord.
3. But when the inhabitants of Gibeon heard what Yehoshua had done to Yericho and to Ai,
4. they also resorted to a ruse, and went and made as if they had been ambassadors, and took old sacks on their donkeys, and wineskins, old and torn and bound up,
5. and old and patched shoes on their feet, and old garments on them; and all the bread of their provision was dry and was become moldy.
6. They went to Yehoshua to the camp at Gilgal, and said to him, and to the people of Israel, We are come from a far country: now therefore make you a covenant with us.
7. The people of Israel said to the Hivites, What if you dwell among us; and how shall we make a covenant with you?
8. They said to Yehoshua, We are your servants. Yehoshua said to them, Who are you? and from whence come you?
9. They said to him, From a very far country your servants are come because of the name of YHWH your God: for we have heard the fame of him, and all that he did in Mitzrayim,
10. and all that he did to the two kings of the Amorites, who were beyond the Yarden, to Sihon king of Heshbon, and to Og king of Bashan, who was at Ashtaroth.
11. Our elders and all the inhabitants of our country spoke to us, saying, Take provision in your hand for the journey, and go to meet them, and tell them, We are your servants: and now make you a covenant with us.
12. This our bread we took hot for our provision out of our houses on the day we came forth to go to you; but now, behold, it is dry, and is become moldy:
13. and these wineskins, which we filled, were new; and behold, they are torn: and these our garments and our shoes are become old by reason of the very long journey.
14. The men took of their provision, and didn't ask counsel at the mouth of YHWH.
15. Yehoshua made peace with them, and made a covenant with them, to let them live: and the princes of the congregation swore to them.
16. It happened at the end of three days after they had made a covenant with them, that they heard that they were their neighbors, and that they lived among them.
17. The children of Israel traveled, and came to their cities on the third day. Now their cities were Gibeon, and Chephirah, and Beeroth, and Kiriath Jearim.
18. The children of Israel didn't strike them, because the princes of the congregation had sworn to them by YHWH, the God of Israel. All the congregation murmured against the princes.
19. But all the princes said to all the congregation, We have sworn to them by YHWH, the God of Israel: now therefore we may not touch them.
20. This we will do to them, and let them live; lest wrath be on us, because of the oath which we swore to them.
21. The princes said to them, Let them live: so they became wood cutters and drawers of water to all the congregation, as the princes had spoken to them.
22. Yehoshua called for them, and he spoke to them, saying, Why have you deceived us, saying, We are very far from you; when you dwell among us?
23. Now therefore you are cursed, and there shall never fail to be of you bondservants, both wood cutters and drawers of water for the house of my God.
24. They answered Yehoshua, and said, Because it was certainly told your servants, how that YHWH your God commanded his servant Moshe to give you all the land, and to destroy all the inhabitants of the land from before you; therefore we were sore afraid for our lives because of you, and have done this thing.
25. Now, behold, we are in your hand: as it seems good and right to you to do to us, do.
26. So did he to them, and delivered them out of the hand of the children of Israel, that they didn't kill them.
27. That day Yehoshua made those wood cutters and drawers of water for the congregation, and for the altar of YHWH, to this day, in the place which he should choose.

Joshua 10
1. Now it happened, when Adoni-Zedek king of Yerushalayim heard how Yehoshua had taken Ai, and had utterly destroyed it; as he had done to Yericho and her king, so he had done to Ai and her king; and how the inhabitants of Gibeon had made peace with Israel, and were among them;
2. that they feared greatly, because Gibeon was a great city, as one of the royal cities, and because it was greater than Ai, and all the men of it were mighty.
3. Therefore Adoni-Zedek king of Yerushalayim sent to Hoham king of Chevron, and to Piram king of Jarmuth, and to Japhia king of Lachish, and to Debir king of Eglon, saying,
4. Come up to me, and help me, and let us strike Gibeon; for it has made peace with Yehoshua and with the children of Israel.
5. Therefore the five kings of the Amorites, the king of Yerushalayim, the king of Chevron, the king of Jarmuth, the king of Lachish, the king of Eglon, gathered themselves together, and went up, they and all their armies, and encamped against Gibeon, and made war against it.
6. The men of Gibeon sent to Yehoshua to the camp to Gilgal, saying, Don't slack your hand from your servants; come up to us quickly, and save us, and help us: for all the kings of the Amorites that dwell in the hill country are gathered together against us.
7. So Yehoshua went up from Gilgal, he, and all the people of war with him, and all the mighty men of valor.
8. YHWH said to Yehoshua, Don't fear them: for I have delivered them into your hands; there shall not a person of them stand before you.
9. Yehoshua therefore came on them suddenly; [for] he went up from Gilgal all the night.
10. YHWH confused them before Israel, and he killed them with a great slaughter at Gibeon, and chased them by the way of the ascent of Beth Horon, and struck them to Azekah, and to Makkedah.
11. It happened, as they fled from before Israel, while they were at the descent of Beth Horon, that YHWH cast down great stones from the heavens on them to Azekah, and they died: they were more who died with the hailstones than they whom the children of Israel killed with the sword.
12. Then spoke Yehoshua to YHWH in the day when YHWH delivered up the Amorites before the children of Israel; and he said in the sight of Israel, Sun, stand you still on Gibeon; You, Moon, in the valley of Aijalon.
13. The sun stood still, and the moon stayed, Until the nation had avenged themselves of their enemies. Isn't this written in the book of Jashar? The sun stayed in the midst of the heavens, and didn't hurry to go down about a whole day.
14. There was no day like that before it or after it, that YHWH listened to the voice of a person: for YHWH fought for Israel.
15. Yehoshua returned, and all Israel with him, to the camp to Gilgal.
16. These five kings fled, and hid themselves in the cave at Makkedah.
17. It was told Yehoshua, saying, The five kings are found, hidden in the cave at Makkedah.
18. Yehoshua said, Roll great stones to the mouth of the cave, and set men by it to keep them:
19. but don't stay; pursue after your enemies, and strike the hindmost of them; don't allow them to enter into their cities: for YHWH your God has delivered them into your hand.
20. It happened, when Yehoshua and the children of Israel had made an end of killing them with a very great slaughter, until they were consumed, and the remnant which remained of them had entered into the fortified cities,
21. that all the people returned to the camp to Yehoshua at Makkedah in peace: none moved his tongue against any of the children of Israel.
22. Then said Yehoshua, Open the mouth of the cave, and bring forth those five kings to me out of the cave.
23. They did so, and brought forth those five kings to him out of the cave, the king of Yerushalayim, the king of Chevron, the king of Jarmuth, the king of Lachish, the king of Eglon.
24. It happened, when they brought forth those kings to Yehoshua, that Yehoshua called for all the people of Israel, and said to the chiefs of the men of war who went with him, Come near, put your feet on the necks of these kings. They came near, and put their feet on the necks of them.
25. Yehoshua said to them, Don't be afraid, nor be dismayed; be strong and of good courage: for thus shall YHWH do to all your enemies against whom you fight.
26. Afterward Yehoshua struck them, and put them to death, and hanged them on five trees: and they were hanging on the trees until the evening.
27. It happened at the time of the going down of the sun, that Yehoshua commanded, and they took them down off the trees, and cast them into the cave in which they had hidden themselves, and laid great stones on the mouth of the cave, to this very day.
28. Yehoshua took Makkedah on that day, and struck it with the edge of the sword, and the king of it: he utterly destroyed them and all the souls who were therein; he left none remaining; and he did to the king of Makkedah as he had done to the king of Yericho.
29. Yehoshua passed from Makkedah, and all Israel with him, to Libnah, and fought against Libnah:
30. and YHWH delivered it also, and the king of it, into the hand of Israel; and he struck it with the edge of the sword, and all the souls who were therein; he left none remaining in it; and he did to the king of it as he had done to the king of Yericho.
31. Yehoshua passed from Libnah, and all Israel with him, to Lachish, and encamped against it, and fought against it:
32. and YHWH delivered Lachish into the hand of Israel; and he took it on the second day, and struck it with the edge of the sword, and all the souls who were therein, according to all that he had done to Libnah.
33. Then Horam king of Gezer came up to help Lachish; and Yehoshua struck him and his people, until he had left him none remaining.
34. Yehoshua passed from Lachish, and all Israel with him, to Eglon; and they encamped against it, and fought against it;
35. and they took it on that day, and struck it with the edge of the sword; and all the souls who were therein he utterly destroyed that day, according to all that he had done to Lachish.
36. Yehoshua went up from Eglon, and all Israel with him, to Chevron; and they fought against it:
37. and they took it, and struck it with the edge of the sword, and the king of it, and all the cities of it, and all the souls who were therein; he left none remaining, according to all that he had done to Eglon; but he utterly destroyed it, and all the souls who were therein.
38. Yehoshua returned, and all Israel with him, to Debir, and fought against it:
39. and he took it, and the king of it, and all the cities of it; and they struck them with the edge of the sword, and utterly destroyed all the souls who were therein; he left none remaining: as he had done to Chevron, so he did to Debir, and to the king of it; as he had done also to Libnah, and to the king of it.
40. So Yehoshua struck all the land, the hill country, and the South, and the lowland, and the slopes, and all their kings: he left none remaining, but he utterly destroyed all that breathed, as YHWH, the God of Israel, commanded.
41. Yehoshua struck them from Kadesh Barnea even to Azzah, and all the country of Goshen, even to Gibeon.
42. All these kings and their land did Yehoshua take at one time, because YHWH, the God of Israel, fought for Israel.
43. Yehoshua returned, and all Israel with him, to the camp to Gilgal.

Joshua 11
1. It happened, when Jabin king of Hazor heard of it, that he sent to Jobab king of Madon, and to the king of Shimron, and to the king of Achshaph,
2. and to the kings who were on the north, in the hill country, and in the Arabah south of Chinneroth, and in the lowland, and in the heights of Dor on the west,
3. to the Canaanite on the east and on the west, and the Amorite, and the Hittite, and the Perizzite, and the Jebusite in the hill country, and the Hivite under Hermon in the land of Mizpah.
4. They went out, they and all their armies with them, much people, even as the sand that is on the seashore in multitude, with horses and chariots very many.
5. All these kings met together; and they came and encamped together at the waters of Merom, to fight with Israel.
6. YHWH said to Yehoshua, Don't be afraid because of them; for tomorrow at this time will I deliver them up all slain before Israel: you shall hamstring their horses, and burn their chariots with fire.
7. So Yehoshua came, and all the people of war with him, against them by the waters of Merom suddenly, and fell on them.
8. YHWH delivered them into the hand of Israel, and they struck them, and chased them to great Tzidon, and to Misrephoth Maim, and to the valley of Mizpeh eastward; and they struck them, until they left them none remaining.
9. Yehoshua did to them as YHWH bade him: he hamstrung their horses, and burnt their chariots with fire.
10. Yehoshua turned back at that time, and took Hazor, and struck the king of it with the sword: for Hazor before was the head of all those kingdoms.
11. They struck all the souls who were therein with the edge of the sword, utterly destroying them; there was none left who breathed: and he burnt Hazor with fire.
12. All the cities of those kings, and all the kings of them, did Yehoshua take, and he struck them with the edge of the sword, and utterly destroyed them; as Moshe the servant of YHWH commanded.
13. But as for the cities that stood on their mounds, Israel burned none of them, save Hazor only; that did Yehoshua burn.
14. All the spoil of these cities, and the livestock, the children of Israel took for a prey to themselves; but everyone they struck with the edge of the sword, until they had destroyed them, neither left they any who breathed.
15. As YHWH commanded Moshe his servant, so did Moshe command Yehoshua: and so did Yehoshua; he left nothing undone of all that YHWH commanded Moshe.
16. So Yehoshua took all that land, the hill country, and all the South, and all the land of Goshen, and the lowland, and the Arabah, and the hill country of Israel, and the lowland of the same;
17. from Mount Halak, that goes up to Seir, even to Baal Gad in the valley of Levanon under Mount Hermon: and all their kings he took, and struck them, and put them to death.
18. Yehoshua made war a long time with all those kings.
19. There was not a city that made peace with the children of Israel, save the Hivites the inhabitants of Gibeon: they took all in battle.
20. For it was of YHWH to harden their hearts, to come against Israel in battle, that he might utterly destroy them, that they might have no favor, but that he might destroy them, as YHWH commanded Moshe.
21. Yehoshua came at that time, and cut off the Anakim from the hill country, from Chevron, from Debir, from Anab, and from all the hill country of Yehudah, and from all the hill country of Israel: Yehoshua utterly destroyed them with their cities.
22. There was none of the Anakim left in the land of the children of Israel: only in Azzah, in Gath, and in Ashdod, did some remain.
23. So Yehoshua took the whole land, according to all that YHWH spoke to Moshe; and Yehoshua gave it for an inheritance to Israel according to their divisions by their tribes. The land had rest from war.

Joshua 12
1. Now these are the kings of the land, whom the children of Israel struck, and possessed their land beyond the Yarden toward the sunrise, from the valley of the Arnon to Mount Hermon, and all the Arabah eastward:
2. Sihon king of the Amorites, who lived in Heshbon, and ruled from Aroer, which is on the edge of the valley of the Arnon, and [the city that is in] the middle of the valley, and half Gilead, even to the river Jabbok, the border of the children of Ammon;
3. and the Arabah to the sea of Chinneroth, eastward, and to the sea of the Arabah, even the Salt Sea, eastward, the way to Beth Jeshimoth; and on the south, under the slopes of Pisgah:
4. and the border of Og king of Bashan, of the remnant of the Rephaim, who lived at Ashtaroth and at Edrei,
5. and ruled in Mount Hermon, and in Salecah, and in all Bashan, to the border of the Geshurites and the Maacathites, and half Gilead, the border of Sihon king of Heshbon.
6. Moshe the servant of YHWH and the children of Israel struck them: and Moshe the servant of YHWH gave it for a possession to the Reubenites, and the Gadites, and the half-tribe of Menashe.
7. These are the kings of the land whom Yehoshua and the children of Israel struck beyond the Yarden westward, from Baal Gad in the valley of Levanon even to Mount Halak, that goes up to Seir; and Yehoshua gave it to the tribes of Israel for a possession according to their divisions;
8. in the hill country, and in the lowland, and in the Arabah, and in the slopes, and in the wilderness, and in the South; the Hittite, the Amorite, and the Canaanite, the Perizzite, the Hivite, and the Jebusite:
9. the king of Yericho, one; the king of Ai, which is beside Beit El, one;
10. the king of Yerushalayim, one; the king of Chevron, one;
11. the king of Jarmuth, one; the king of Lachish, one;
12. the king of Eglon, one; the king of Gezer, one;
13. the king of Debir, one; the king of Geder, one;
14. the king of Hormah, one; the king of Arad, one;
15. the king of Libnah, one; the king of Adullam, one;
16. the king of Makkedah, one; the king of Beit El, one;
17. the king of Tappuah, one; the king of Hepher, one;
18. the king of Aphek, one; the king of Lassharon, one;
19. the king of Madon, one; the king of Hazor, one;
20. the king of Shimron Meron, one; the king of Achshaph, one;
21. the king of Taanach, one; the king of Megiddo, one;
22. the king of Kedesh, one; the king of Jokneam in Carmel, one;
23. the king of Dor in the height of Dor, one; the king of Goiim in Gilgal, one;
24. the king of Tirzah, one: all the kings thirty-one.

Joshua 13
1. Now Yehoshua was old and well stricken in years; and YHWH said to him, You are old and well stricken in years, and there remains yet very much land to be possessed.
2. This is the land that yet remains: all the regions of the Philistines, and all the Geshurites;
3. from the Shihor, which is before Mitzrayim, even to the border of Ekron northward, [which] is reckoned to the Canaanites; the five lords of the Philistines; the Gazites, and the Ashdodites, the Ashkelonites, the Gittites, and the Ekronites; also the Avvim,
4. on the south; all the land of the Canaanites, and Mearah that belongs to the Sidonians, to Aphek, to the border of the Amorites;
5. and the land of the Gebalites, and all Levanon, toward the sunrise, from Baal Gad under Mount Hermon to the entrance of Hamath;
6. all the inhabitants of the hill country from Levanon to Misrephoth Maim, even all the Sidonians; them will I drive out from before the children of Israel: only allot you it to Israel for an inheritance, as I have commanded you.
7. Now therefore divide this land for an inheritance to the nine tribes, and the half-tribe of Menashe.
8. With him the Reubenites and the Gadites received their inheritance, which Moshe gave them, beyond the Yarden eastward, even as Moshe the servant of YHWH gave them:
9. from Aroer, that is on the edge of the valley of the Arnon, and the city that is in the middle of the valley, and all the plain of Medeba to Dibon;
10. and all the cities of Sihon king of the Amorites, who reigned in Heshbon, to the border of the children of Ammon;
11. and Gilead, and the border of the Geshurites and Maacathites, and all Mount Hermon, and all Bashan to Salecah;
12. all the kingdom of Og in Bashan, who reigned in Ashtaroth and in Edrei (the same was left of the remnant of the Rephaim); for these did Moshe strike, and drove them out.
13. Nevertheless the children of Israel didn't drive out the Geshurites, nor the Maacathites: but Geshur and Maacath dwell in the midst of Israel to this day.
14. Only to the tribe of Levi he gave no inheritance; the offerings of YHWH, the God of Israel, made by fire are his inheritance, as he spoke to him.
15. Moshe gave to the tribe of the children of Reuven according to their families.
16. Their border was from Aroer, that is on the edge of the valley of the Arnon, and the city that is in the middle of the valley, and all the plain by Medeba;
17. Heshbon, and all its cities that are in the plain; Dibon, and Bamoth Baal, and Beth Baal Meon,
18. and Jahaz, and Kedemoth, and Mephaath,
19. and Kiriathaim, and Sibmah, and Zereth Shahar in the mount of the valley,
20. and Beth Peor, and the slopes of Pisgah, and Beth Jeshimoth,
21. and all the cities of the plain, and all the kingdom of Sihon king of the Amorites, who reigned in Heshbon, whom Moshe struck with the chiefs of Midian, Evi, and Rekem, and Zur, and Hur, and Reba, the princes of Sihon, who lived in the land.
22. Bil'am also the son of Beor, the soothsayer, did the children of Israel kill with the sword among the rest of their slain.
23. The border of the children of Reuven was the Yarden, and the border [of it]. This was the inheritance of the children of Reuven according to their families, the cities and the villages of it.
24. Moshe gave to the tribe of Gad, to the children of Gad, according to their families.
25. Their border was Jazer, and all the cities of Gilead, and half the land of the children of Ammon, to Aroer that is before Rabbah;
26. and from Heshbon to Ramath Mizpeh, and Betonim; and from Mahanaim to the border of Debir;
27. and in the valley, Beth Haram, and Beth Nimrah, and Succoth, and Zaphon, the rest of the kingdom of Sihon king of Heshbon, the Yarden and the border [of it], to the uttermost part of the sea of Chinnereth beyond the Yarden eastward.
28. This is the inheritance of the children of Gad according to their families, the cities and the villages of it.
29. Moshe gave [inheritance] to the half-tribe of Menashe: and it was for the half-tribe of the children of Menashe according to their families.
30. Their border was from Mahanaim, all Bashan, all the kingdom of Og king of Bashan, and all the towns of Jair, which are in Bashan, sixty cities:
31. and half Gilead, and Ashtaroth, and Edrei, the cities of the kingdom of Og in Bashan, were for the children of Machir the son of Menashe, even for the half of the children of Machir according to their families.
32. These are the inheritances which Moshe distributed in the plains of Moab, beyond the Yarden at Yericho, eastward.
33. But to the tribe of Levi Moshe gave no inheritance: YHWH, the God of Israel, is their inheritance, as he spoke to them.

Joshua 14
1. These are the inheritances which the children of Israel took in the land of Canaan, which Eleazar the priest, and Yehoshua the son of Nun, and the heads of the fathers' [houses] of the tribes of the children of Israel, distributed to them,
2. by the lot of their inheritance, as YHWH commanded by Moshe, for the nine tribes, and for the half-tribe.
3. For Moshe had given the inheritance of the two tribes and the half-tribe beyond the Yarden: but to the Levites he gave no inheritance among them.
4. For the children of Yosef were two tribes, Menashe and Efrayim: and they gave no portion to the Levites in the land, save cities to dwell in, with the suburbs of it for their livestock and for their substance.
5. As YHWH commanded Moshe, so the children of Israel did; and they divided the land.
6. Then the children of Yehudah drew near to Yehoshua in Gilgal: and Kalev the son of Jephunneh the Kenizzite said to him, You know the thing that YHWH spoke to Moshe the person of Elohim concerning me and concerning you in Kadesh Barnea.
7. Forty years old was I when Moshe the servant of YHWH sent me from Kadesh Barnea to spy out the land; and I brought him word again as it was in my heart.
8. Nevertheless my brothers who went up with me made the heart of the people melt; but I wholly followed YHWH my God.
9. Moshe swore on that day, saying, Surely the land whereon your foot has trodden shall be an inheritance to you and to your children forever, because you have wholly followed YHWH my God.
10. Now, behold, YHWH has kept me alive, as he spoke, these forty-five years, from the time that YHWH spoke this word to Moshe, while Israel walked in the wilderness: and now, behold, I am this day eighty-five years old.
11. As yet I am as strong this day as I as in the day that Moshe sent me: as my strength was then, even so is my strength now, for war, and to go out and to come in.
12. Now therefore give me this hill country, of which YHWH spoke in that day; for you heard in that day how the Anakim were there, and cities great and fortified: it may be that YHWH will be with me, and I shall drive them out, as YHWH spoke.
13. Yehoshua blessed him; and he gave Chevron to Kalev the son of Jephunneh for an inheritance.
14. Therefore Chevron became the inheritance of Kalev the son of Jephunneh the Kenizzite to this day; because that the one wholly followed YHWH, the God of Israel.
15. Now the name of Chevron before was Kiriath Arba; [which Arba was] the greatest man among the Anakim. The land had rest from war.

Joshua 15
1. The lot for the tribe of the children of Yehudah according to their families was to the border of Edom, even to the wilderness of Zin southward, at the uttermost part of the south.
2. Their south border was from the uttermost part of the Salt Sea, from the bay that looks southward;
3. and it went out southward of the ascent of Akrabbim, and passed along to Zin, and went up by the south of Kadesh Barnea, and passed along by Hezron, and went up to Addar, and turned about to Karka;
4. and it passed along to Azmon, and went out at the brook of Mitzrayim; and the goings out of the border were at the sea: this shall be your south border.
5. The east border was the Salt Sea, even to the end of the Yarden. The border of the north quarter was from the bay of the sea at the end of the Yarden;
6. and the border went up to Beth Hoglah, and passed along by the north of Beth Arabah; and the border went up to the stone of Bohan the son of Reuven;
7. and the border went up to Debir from the valley of Achor, and so northward, looking toward Gilgal, that is over against the ascent of Adummim, which is on the south side of the river; and the border passed along to the waters of En Shemesh, and the goings out of it were at En Rogel;
8. and the border went up by the valley of the son of Hinnom to the side of the Jebusite southward (the same is Yerushalayim); and the border went up to the top of the mountain that lies before the valley of Hinnom westward, which is at the uttermost part of the valley of Rephaim northward;
9. and the border extended from the top of the mountain to the spring of the waters of Nephtoah, and went out to the cities of Mount Ephron; and the border extended to Baalah (the same is Kiriath Jearim);
10. and the border turned about from Baalah westward to Mount Seir, and passed along to the side of Mount Jearim on the north (the same is Chesalon), and went down to Beth Shemesh, and passed along by Timnah;
11. and the border went out to the side of Ekron northward; and the border extended to Shikkeron, and passed along to Mount Baalah, and went out at Jabneel; and the goings out of the border were at the sea.
12. The west border was to the great sea, and the border [of it]. This is the border of the children of Yehudah round about according to their families.
13. To Kalev the son of Jephunneh he gave a portion among the children of Yehudah, according to the commandment of YHWH to Yehoshua, even Kiriath Arba, [which Arba was] the father of Anak (the same is Chevron).
14. Kalev drove out there the three sons of Anak: Sheshai, and Ahiman, and Talmai, the children of Anak.
15. He went up there against the inhabitants of Debir: now the name of Debir before was Kiriath Sepher.
16. Kalev said, The one who strikes Kiriath Sepher, and takes it, to him will I give Achsah my daughter as wife.
17. Othniel the son of Kenaz, the brother of Kalev, took it: and he gave him Achsah his daughter as wife.
18. It happened, when she came [to him], that she moved him to ask of her father a field: and she alighted from off her donkey; and Kalev said, What would you?
19. She said, Give me a blessing; for that you have set me in the land of the South, give me also springs of water. He gave her the upper springs and the lower springs.
20. This is the inheritance of the tribe of the children of Yehudah according to their families.
21. The uttermost cities of the tribe of the children of Yehudah toward the border of Edom in the South were Kabzeel, and Eder, and Jagur,
22. and Kinah, and Dimonah, and Adadah,
23. and Kedesh, and Hazor, and Ithnan,
24. Ziph, and Telem, and Bealoth,
25. Hazor Hadattah, Kerioth, Hezron (the same is Hazor),
26. Amam, and Shema, and Moladah,
27. and Hazar Gaddah, and Heshmon, and Beth Pelet,
28. and Hazar Shual, and Be'er Sheva, and Biziothiah,
29. Baalah, and Iim, and Ezem,
30. and Eltolad, and Chesil, and Hormah,
31. and Ziklag, and Madmannah, and Sansannah,
32. and Lebaoth, and Shilhim, and Ain, and Rimmon: all the cities are twenty-nine, with their villages.
33. In the lowland, Eshtaol, and Zorah, and Ashnah,
34. and Zanoah, and En Gannim, Tappuah, and Enam,
35. Jarmuth, and Adullam, Socoh, and Azekah,
36. and Shaaraim, and Adithaim, and Gederah, and Gederothaim; fourteen cities with their villages.
37. Zenan, and Hadashah, and Migdal Gad,
38. and Dilean, and Mizpeh, and Joktheel,
39. Lachish, and Bozkath, and Eglon,
40. and Cabbon, and Lahmam, and Chitlish,
41. and Gederoth, Beth Dagon, and Naamah, and Makkedah; sixteen cities with their villages.
42. Libnah, and Ether, and Ashan,
43. and Iphtah, and Ashnah, and Nezib,
44. and Keilah, and Achzib, and Mareshah; nine cities with their villages.
45. Ekron, with its towns and its villages;
46. from Ekron even to the sea, all that were by the side of Ashdod, with their villages.
47. Ashdod, its towns and its villages; Azzah, its towns and its villages; to the brook of Mitzrayim, and the great sea, and the border [of it].
48. In the hill country, Shamir, and Jattir, and Socoh,
49. and Dannah, and Kiriath Sannah (the same is Debir),
50. and Anab, and Eshtemoh, and Anim,
51. and Goshen, and Holon, and Giloh; eleven cities with their villages.
52. Arab, and Dumah, and Eshan,
53. and Janim, and Beth Tappuah, and Aphekah,
54. and Humtah, and Kiriath Arba (the same is Chevron), and Zior; nine cities with their villages.
55. Maon, Carmel, and Ziph, and Jutah,
56. and Jezreel, and Jokdeam, and Zanoah,
57. Kain, Gibeah, and Timnah; ten cities with their villages.
58. Halhul, Beth Zur, and Gedor,
59. and Maarath, and Beth Anoth, and Eltekon; six cities with their villages.
60. Kiriath Baal (the same is Kiriath Jearim), and Rabbah; two cities with their villages.
61. In the wilderness, Beth Arabah, Middin, and Secacah,
62. and Nibshan, and the City of Salt, and En Gedi; six cities with their villages.
63. As for the Jebusites, the inhabitants of Yerushalayim, the children of Yehudah couldn't drive them out: but the Jebusites dwell with the children of Yehudah at Yerushalayim to this day.

Joshua 16
1. The lot came out for the children of Yosef from the Yarden at Yericho, at the waters of Yericho on the east, even the wilderness, going up from Yericho through the hill country to Beit El;
2. and it went out from Beit El to Luz, and passed along to the border of the Archites to Ataroth;
3. and it went down westward to the border of the Japhletites, to the border of Beth Horon the lower, even to Gezer; and the goings out of it were at the sea.
4. The children of Yosef, Menashe and Efrayim, took their inheritance.
5. The border of the children of Efrayim according to their families was [thus]: the border of their inheritance eastward was Ataroth Addar, to Beth Horon the upper;
6. and the border went out westward at Michmethath on the north; and the border turned about eastward to Taanath Shilo, and passed along it on the east of Janoah;
7. and it went down from Janoah to Ataroth, and to Naarah, and reached to Yericho, and went out at the Yarden.
8. From Tappuah the border went along westward to the brook of Kanah; and the goings out of it were at the sea. This is the inheritance of the tribe of the children of Efrayim according to their families;
9. together with the cities which were set apart for the children of Efrayim in the midst of the inheritance of the children of Menashe, all the cities with their villages.
10. They didn't drive out the Canaanites who lived in Gezer: but the Canaanites dwell in the midst of Efrayim to this day, and are become servants to do forced labor.

Joshua 17
1. [This] was the lot for the tribe of Menashe; for he was the firstborn of Yosef. As for Machir the firstborn of Menashe, the father of Gilead, because they were a warrior, therefore they had Gilead and Bashan.
2. So [the lot] was for the rest of the children of Menashe according to their families: for the children of Abiezer, and for the children of Helek, and for the children of Asriel, and for the children of Shekhem, and for the children of Hepher, and for the children of Shemida: these were the male children of Menashe the son of Yosef according to their families.
3. But Zelophehad, the son of Hepher, the son of Gilead, the son of Machir, the son of Menashe, had no sons, but daughters: and these are the names of his daughters: Mahlah, and Noah, Hoglah, Milcah, and Tirzah.
4. They came near before Eleazar the priest, and before Yehoshua the son of Nun, and before the princes, saying, YHWH commanded Moshe to give us an inheritance among our brothers: therefore according to the commandment of YHWH he gave them an inheritance among the brothers of their father.
5. There fell ten parts to Menashe, besides the land of Gilead and Bashan, which is beyond the Yarden;
6. because the daughters of Menashe had an inheritance among his sons. The land of Gilead belonged to the rest of the sons of Menashe.
7. The border of Menashe was from Asher to Michmethath, which is before Shekhem; and the border went along to the right hand, to the inhabitants of En Tappuah.
8. The land of Tappuah belonged to Menashe; but Tappuah on the border of Menashe belonged to the children of Efrayim.
9. The border went down to the brook of Kanah, southward of the brook: these cities belonged to Efrayim among the cities of Menashe: and the border of Menashe was on the north side of the brook, and the goings out of it were at the sea:
10. southward it was Efrayim's, and northward it was Menashe's, and the sea was his border; and they reached to Asher on the north, and to Yissakhar on the east.
11. Menashe had in Yissakhar and in Asher Beth Shean and its towns, and Ibleam and its towns, and the inhabitants of Dor and its towns, and the inhabitants of Endor and its towns, and the inhabitants of Taanach and its towns, and the inhabitants of Megiddo and its towns, even the three heights.
12. Yet the children of Menashe couldn't drive out [the inhabitants of] those cities; but the Canaanites would dwell in that land.
13. It happened, when the children of Israel had grown strong, that they put the Canaanites to forced labor, and didn't utterly drive them out.
14. The children of Yosef spoke to Yehoshua, saying, Why have you given me but one lot and one part for an inheritance, seeing I am a great people, because hitherto YHWH has blessed me?
15. Yehoshua said to them, If you are a great people, go up to the forest, and cut down for yourself there in the land of the Perizzites and of the Rephaim; since the hill country of Efrayim is too narrow for you.
16. The children of Yosef said, The hill country is not enough for us: and all the Canaanites who dwell in the land of the valley have chariots of iron, both they who are in Beth Shean and its towns, and they who are in the valley of Jezreel.
17. Yehoshua spoke to the house of Yosef, even to Efrayim and to Menashe, saying, You are a great people, and have great power; you shall not have one lot only:
18. but the hill country shall be yours; for though it is a forest, you shall cut it down, and the goings out of it shall be yours; for you shall drive out the Canaanites, though they have chariots of iron, and though they are strong.

Joshua 18
1. The whole congregation of the children of Israel assembled themselves together at Shilo, and set up the tent of meeting there: and the land was subdued before them.
2. There remained among the children of Israel seven tribes, which had not yet divided their inheritance.
3. Yehoshua said to the children of Israel, How long are you slack to go in to possess the land, which YHWH, the God of your fathers, has given you?
4. Appoint for you three men of each tribe: and I will send them, and they shall arise, and walk through the land, and describe it according to their inheritance; and they shall come to me.
5. They shall divide it into seven portions: Yehudah shall abide in his border on the south, and the house of Yosef shall abide in their border on the north.
6. You shall describe the land into seven portions, and bring [the description] here to me; and I will cast lots for you here before YHWH our God.
7. For the Levites have no portion among you; for the priesthood of YHWH is their inheritance: and Gad and Reuven and the half-tribe of Menashe have received their inheritance beyond the Yarden eastward, which Moshe the servant of YHWH gave them.
8. The men arose, and went: and Yehoshua charged those who went to describe the land, saying, Go and walk through the land, and describe it, and come again to me; and I will cast lots for you here before YHWH in Shilo.
9. The men went and passed through the land, and described it by cities into seven portions in a book; and they came to Yehoshua to the camp at Shilo.
10. Yehoshua cast lots for them in Shilo before YHWH: and there Yehoshua divided the land to the children of Israel according to their divisions.
11. The lot of the tribe of the children of Binyamin came up according to their families: and the border of their lot went out between the children of Yehudah and the children of Yosef.
12. Their border on the north quarter was from the Yarden; and the border went up to the side of Yericho on the north, and went up through the hill country westward; and the goings out of it were at the wilderness of Beth Aven.
13. The border passed along from there to Luz, to the side of Luz (the same is Beit El), southward; and the border went down to Ataroth Addar, by the mountain that lies on the south of Beth Horon the lower.
14. The border extended [there], and turned about on the west quarter southward, from the mountain that lies before Beth Horon southward; and the goings out of it were at Kiriath Baal (the same is Kiriath Jearim), a city of the children of Yehudah: this was the west quarter.
15. The south quarter was from the uttermost part of Kiriath Jearim; and the border went out westward, and went out to the spring of the waters of Nephtoah;
16. and the border went down to the uttermost part of the mountain that lies before the valley of the son of Hinnom, which is in the valley of Rephaim northward; and it went down to the valley of Hinnom, to the side of the Jebusite southward, and went down to En Rogel;
17. and it extended northward, and went out at En Shemesh, and went out to Geliloth, which is over against the ascent of Adummim; and it went down to the stone of Bohan the son of Reuven;
18. and it passed along to the side over against the Arabah northward, and went down to the Arabah;
19. and the border passed along to the side of Beth Hoglah northward; and the goings out of the border were at the north bay of the Salt Sea, at the south end of the Yarden: this was the south border.
20. The Yarden was the border of it on the east quarter. This was the inheritance of the children of Binyamin, by the borders of it round about, according to their families.
21. Now the cities of the tribe of the children of Binyamin according to their families were Yericho, and Beth Hoglah, and Emek Keziz,
22. and Beth Arabah, and Zemaraim, and Beit El,
23. and Avvim, and Parah, and Ophrah,
24. and Chephar Ammoni, and Ophni, and Geba; twelve cities with their villages:
25. Gibeon, and Ramah, and Beeroth,
26. and Mizpeh, and Chephirah, and Mozah,
27. and Rekem, and Irpeel, and Taralah,
28. and Zelah, Eleph, and the Jebusite (the same is Yerushalayim), Gibeath, [and] Kiriath; fourteen cities with their villages. This is the inheritance of the children of Binyamin according to their families.

Joshua 19
1. The second lot came out for Shim'on, even for the tribe of the children of Shim'on according to their families: and their inheritance was in the midst of the inheritance of the children of Yehudah.
2. They had for their inheritance Be'er Sheva, or Sheba, and Moladah,
3. and Hazar Shual, and Balah, and Ezem,
4. and Eltolad, and Bethul, and Hormah,
5. and Ziklag, and Beth Marcaboth, and Hazar Susah,
6. and Beth Lebaoth, and Sharuhen; thirteen cities with their villages:
7. Ain, Rimmon, and Ether, and Ashan; four cities with their villages:
8. and all the villages that were round about these cities to Baalath Beer, Ramah of the South. This is the inheritance of the tribe of the children of Shim'on according to their families.
9. Out of the part of the children of Yehudah was the inheritance of the children of Shim'on; for the portion of the children of Yehudah was too much for them: therefore the children of Shim'on had inheritance in the midst of their inheritance.
10. The third lot came up for the children of Zevulun according to their families; and the border of their inheritance was to Sarid;
11. and their border went up westward, even to Maralah, and reached to Dabbesheth; and it reached to the brook that is before Jokneam;
12. and it turned from Sarid eastward toward the sunrise to the border of Chisloth Tabor; and it went out to Daberath, and went up to Japhia;
13. and from there it passed along eastward to Gath Hepher, to Ethkazin; and it went out at Rimmon which stretches to Neah;
14. and the border turned about it on the north to Hannathon; and the goings out of it were at the valley of Iphtah El;
15. and Kattath, and Nahalal, and Shimron, and Idalah, and Beit Lechem: twelve cities with their villages.
16. This is the inheritance of the children of Zevulun according to their families, these cities with their villages.
17. The fourth lot came out for Yissakhar, even for the children of Yissakhar according to their families.
18. Their border was to Jezreel, and Chesulloth, and Shunem,
19. and Hapharaim, and Shion, and Anaharath,
20. and Rabbith, and Kishion, and Ebez,
21. and Remeth, and Engannim, and En Haddah, and Beth Pazzez,
22. and the border reached to Tabor, and Shahazumah, and Beth Shemesh; and the goings out of their border were at the Yarden: sixteen cities with their villages.
23. This is the inheritance of the tribe of the children of Yissakhar according to their families, the cities with their villages.
24. The fifth lot came out for the tribe of the children of Asher according to their families.
25. Their border was Helkath, and Hali, and Beten, and Achshaph,
26. and Allammelech, and Amad, and Mishal; and it reached to Carmel westward, and to Shihorlibnath;
27. and it turned toward the sunrise to Beth Dagon, and reached to Zevulun, and to the valley of Iphtah El northward to Beth Emek and Neiel; and it went out to Cabul on the left hand,
28. and Ebron, and Rehob, and Hammon, and Kanah, even to great Tzidon;
29. and the border turned to Ramah, and to the fortified city of Tzor; and the border turned to Hosah; and the goings out of it were at the sea by the region of Achzib;
30. Ummah also, and Aphek, and Rehob: twenty-two cities with their villages.
31. This is the inheritance of the tribe of the children of Asher according to their families, these cities with their villages.
32. The sixth lot came out for the children of Naphtali, even for the children of Naphtali according to their families.
33. Their border was from Heleph, from the oak in Zaanannim, and Adaminekeb, and Jabneel, to Lakkum; and the goings out of it were at the Yarden;
34. and the border turned westward to Aznoth Tabor, and went out from there to Hukkok; and it reached to Zevulun on the south, and reached to Asher on the west, and to Yehudah at the Yarden toward the sunrise.
35. The fortified cities were Ziddim, Zer, and Hammath, Rakkath, and Chinnereth,
36. and Adamah, and Ramah, and Hazor,
37. and Kedesh, and Edrei, and En Hazor,
38. Iron, and Migdal El, Horem, and Beth Anath, and Beth Shemesh; nineteen cities with their villages.
39. This is the inheritance of the tribe of the children of Naphtali according to their families, the cities with their villages.
40. The seventh lot came out for the tribe of the children of Dan according to their families.
41. The border of their inheritance was Zorah, and Eshtaol, and Irshemesh,
42. and Shaalabbin, and Aijalon, and Ithlah,
43. and Elon, and Timnah, and Ekron,
44. and Eltekeh, and Gibbethon, and Baalath,
45. and Jehud, and Bene Berak, and Gath Rimmon,
46. and Me Jarkon, and Rakkon, with the border over against Yafo.
47. The border of the children of Dan went out beyond them; for the children of Dan went up and fought against Leshem, and took it, and struck it with the edge of the sword, and possessed it, and lived therein, and called Leshem, Dan, after the name of Dan their father.
48. This is the inheritance of the tribe of the children of Dan according to their families, these cities with their villages.
49. So they made an end of distributing the land for inheritance by the borders of it; and the children of Israel gave an inheritance to Yehoshua the son of Nun in the midst of them:
50. according to the commandment of YHWH they gave him the city which he asked, even Timnathserah in the hill country of Efrayim; and he built the city, and lived therein.
51. These are the inheritances, which Eleazar the priest, and Yehoshua the son of Nun, and the heads of the fathers' [houses] of the tribes of the children of Israel, distributed for inheritance by lot in Shilo before YHWH, at the door of the tent of meeting. So they made an end of dividing the land.

Joshua 20
1. YHWH spoke to Yehoshua, saying,
2. Speak to the children of Israel, saying, Assign you the cities of refuge, of which I spoke to you by Moshe,
3. that the manslayer who kills any person unwittingly [and] unawares may flee there: and they shall be to you for a refuge from the avenger of blood.
4. He shall flee to one of those cities, and shall stand at the entrance of the gate of the city, and declare his cause in the ears of the elders of that city; and they shall take him into the city to them, and give him a place, that he may dwell among them.
5. If the avenger of blood pursue after him, then they shall not deliver up the manslayer into his hand; because he struck his neighbor unawares, and didn't hate him before.
6. He shall dwell in that city, until he stand before the congregation for judgment, until the death of the high priest that shall be in those days: then shall the manslayer return, and come to his own city, and to his own house, to the city from whence he fled.
7. They set apart Kedesh in Galil in the hill country of Naphtali, and Shekhem in the hill country of Efrayim, and Kiriath Arba (the same is Chevron) in the hill country of Yehudah.
8. Beyond the Yarden at Yericho eastward, they assigned Bezer in the wilderness in the plain out of the tribe of Reuven, and Ramoth in Gilead out of the tribe of Gad, and Golan in Bashan out of the tribe of Menashe.
9. These were the appointed cities for all the children of Israel, and for the stranger who sojourns among them, that whoever kills any person unwittingly might flee there, and not die by the hand of the avenger of blood, until they stood before the congregation.

Joshua 21
1. Then came near the heads of fathers' [houses] of the Levites to Eleazar the priest, and to Yehoshua the son of Nun, and to the heads of fathers' [houses] of the tribes of the children of Israel;
2. and they spoke to them at Shilo in the land of Canaan, saying, YHWH commanded Moshe to give us cities to dwell in, with the suburbs of it for our livestock.
3. The children of Israel gave to the Levites out of their inheritance, according to the commandment of YHWH, these cities with their suburbs.
4. The lot came out for the families of the Kohathites: and the children of Aharon the priest, who were of the Levites, had by lot out of the tribe of Yehudah, and out of the tribe of the Simeonites, and out of the tribe of Binyamin, thirteen cities.
5. The rest of the children of Kohath had by lot out of the families of the tribe of Efrayim, and out of the tribe of Dan, and out of the half-tribe of Menashe, ten cities.
6. The children of Gershon had by lot out of the families of the tribe of Yissakhar, and out of the tribe of Asher, and out of the tribe of Naphtali, and out of the half-tribe of Menashe in Bashan, thirteen cities.
7. The children of Merari according to their families had out of the tribe of Reuven, and out of the tribe of Gad, and out of the tribe of Zevulun, twelve cities.
8. The children of Israel gave by lot to the Levites these cities with their suburbs, as YHWH commanded by Moshe.
9. They gave out of the tribe of the children of Yehudah, and out of the tribe of the children of Shim'on, these cities which are [here] mentioned by name:
10. and they were for the children of Aharon, of the families of the Kohathites, who were of the children of Levi; for theirs was the first lot.
11. They gave them Kiriath Arba, [which Arba was] the father of Anak (the same is Chevron), in the hill country of Yehudah, with the suburbs of it round about it.
12. But the fields of the city, and the villages of it, gave they to Kalev the son of Jephunneh for his possession.
13. To the children of Aharon the priest they gave Chevron with its suburbs, the city of refuge for the manslayer, and Libnah with its suburbs,
14. and Jattir with its suburbs, and Eshtemoa with its suburbs,
15. and Holon with its suburbs, and Debir with its suburbs,
16. and Ain with its suburbs, and Juttah with its suburbs, [and] Beth Shemesh with its suburbs; nine cities out of those two tribes.
17. Out of the tribe of Binyamin, Gibeon with its suburbs, Geba with its suburbs,
18. Anathoth with its suburbs, and Almon with its suburbs; four cities.
19. All the cities of the children of Aharon, the priests, were thirteen cities with their suburbs.
20. The families of the children of Kohath, the Levites, even the rest of the children of Kohath, they had the cities of their lot out of the tribe of Efrayim.
21. They gave them Shekhem with its suburbs in the hill country of Efrayim, the city of refuge for the manslayer, and Gezer with its suburbs,
22. and Kibzaim with its suburbs, and Beth Horon with its suburbs; four cities.
23. Out of the tribe of Dan, Elteke with its suburbs, Gibbethon with its suburbs,
24. Aijalon with its suburbs, Gath Rimmon with its suburbs; four cities.
25. Out of the half-tribe of Menashe, Taanach with its suburbs, and Gath Rimmon with its suburbs; two cities.
26. All the cities of the families of the rest of the children of Kohath were ten with their suburbs.
27. To the children of Gershon, of the families of the Levites, out of the half-tribe of Menashe [they gave] Golan in Bashan with its suburbs, the city of refuge for the manslayer, and Be Eshterah with its suburbs; two cities.
28. Out of the tribe of Yissakhar, Kishion with its suburbs, Daberath with its suburbs,
29. Jarmuth with its suburbs, En Gannim with its suburbs; four cities.
30. Out of the tribe of Asher, Mishal with its suburbs, Abdon with its suburbs,
31. Helkath with its suburbs, and Rehob with its suburbs; four cities.
32. Out of the tribe of Naphtali, Kedesh in Galil with its suburbs, the city of refuge for the manslayer, and Hammothdor with its suburbs, and Kartan with its suburbs; three cities.
33. All the cities of the Gershonites according to their families were thirteen cities with their suburbs.
34. To the families of the children of Merari, the rest of the Levites, out of the tribe of Zevulun, Jokneam with its suburbs, and Kartah with its suburbs,
35. Dimnah with its suburbs, Nahalal with its suburbs; four cities.
36. Out of the tribe of Reuven, Bezer with its suburbs, and Jahaz with its suburbs,
37. Kedemoth with its suburbs, and Mephaath with its suburbs; four cities.
38. Out of the tribe of Gad, Ramoth in Gilead with its suburbs, the city of refuge for the manslayer, and Mahanaim with its suburbs,
39. Heshbon with its suburbs, Jazer with its suburbs; four cities in all.
40. All [these were] the cities of the children of Merari according to their families, even the rest of the families of the Levites; and their lot was twelve cities.
41. All the cities of the Levites in the midst of the possession of the children of Israel were forty-eight cities with their suburbs.
42. These cities were every one with their suburbs round about them: thus it was with all these cities.
43. So YHWH gave to Israel all the land which he swore to give to their fathers; and they possessed it, and lived therein.
44. YHWH gave them rest round about, according to all that they swore to their fathers: and there stood not a person of all their enemies before them; YHWH delivered all their enemies into their hand.
45. There failed not anything of any good thing which YHWH had spoken to the house of Israel; all came to pass.

Joshua 22
1. Then Yehoshua called the Reubenites, and the Gadites, and the half-tribe of Menashe,
2. and said to them, You have kept all that Moshe the servant of YHWH commanded you, and have listened to my voice in all that I commanded you:
3. you have not left your brothers these many days to this day, but have kept the charge of the commandment of YHWH your God.
4. Now YHWH your God has given rest to your brothers, as he spoke to them: therefore now turn you, and get you to your tents, to the land of your possession, which Moshe the servant of YHWH gave you beyond the Yarden.
5. Only take diligent heed to do the commandment and the law which Moshe the servant of YHWH commanded you, to love YHWH your God, and to walk in all his ways, and to keep his commandments, and to cleave to him, and to serve him with all your heart and with all your soul.
6. So Yehoshua blessed them, and sent them away; and they went to their tents.
7. Now to the one half-tribe of Menashe Moshe had given [inheritance] in Bashan; but to the other half gave Yehoshua among their brothers beyond the Yarden westward; moreover when Yehoshua sent them away to their tents, he blessed them,
8. and spoke to them, saying, Return with much wealth to your tents, and with very much livestock, with silver, and with gold, and with brass, and with iron, and with very much clothing: divide the spoil of your enemies with your brothers.
9. The children of Reuven and the children of Gad and the half-tribe of Menashe returned, and departed from the children of Israel out of Shilo, which is in the land of Canaan, to go to the land of Gilead, to the land of their possession, which they owned, according to the commandment of YHWH by Moshe.
10. When they came to the region about the Yarden, that is in the land of Canaan, the children of Reuven and the children of Gad and the half-tribe of Menashe built there an altar by the Yarden, a great altar to look on.
11. The children of Israel heard say, Behold, the children of Reuven and the children of Gad and the half-tribe of Menashe have built an altar in the forefront of the land of Canaan, in the region about the Yarden, on the side that pertains to the children of Israel.
12. When the children of Israel heard of it, the whole congregation of the children of Israel gathered themselves together at Shilo, to go up against them to war.
13. The children of Israel sent to the children of Reuven, and to the children of Gad, and to the half-tribe of Menashe, into the land of Gilead, Phinehas the son of Eleazar the priest,
14. and with him ten princes, one prince of a fathers' house for each of the tribes of Israel; and they were everyone of them head of their fathers' houses among the thousands of Israel.
15. They came to the children of Reuven, and to the children of Gad, and to the half-tribe of Menashe, to the land of Gilead, and they spoke with them, saying,
16. Thus says the whole congregation of YHWH, What trespass is this that you have committed against the God of Israel, to turn away this day from following YHWH, in that you have built you an altar, to rebel this day against YHWH?
17. Is the iniquity of Peor too little for us, from which we have not cleansed ourselves to this day, although there came a plague on the congregation of YHWH,
18. that you must turn away this day from following YHWH? and it will be, seeing you rebel today against YHWH, that tomorrow he will be angry with the whole congregation of Israel.
19. However, if the land of your possession be unclean, then pass over to the land of the possession of YHWH, in which YHWH's tent dwells, and take possession among us: but don't rebel against YHWH, nor rebel against us, in building you an altar besides the altar of YHWH our God.
20. Didn't Achan the son of Zerah commit a trespass in the devoted thing, and wrath fell on all the congregation of Israel? and that man didn't perish alone in his iniquity.
21. Then the children of Reuven and the children of Gad and the half-tribe of Menashe answered, and spoke to the heads of the thousands of Israel,
22. The Mighty One, Elohim, YHWH, the Mighty One, Elohim, YHWH, he knows; and Israel he shall know: if it be in rebellion, or if in trespass against YHWH (don't save us this day),
23. that we have built us an altar to turn away from following YHWH; or if to offer thereon burnt offering or meal offering, or if to offer sacrifices of peace offerings thereon, let YHWH himself require it;
24. and if we have not [rather] out of carefulness done this, [and] of purpose, saying, In time to come your children might speak to our children, saying, What have you to do with YHWH, the God of Israel?
25. for YHWH has made the Yarden a border between us and you, you children of Reuven and children of Gad; you have no portion in YHWH: so might your children make our children cease from revering YHWH.
26. Therefore we said, Let us now prepare to build us an altar, not for burnt offering, nor for sacrifice:
27. but it shall be a witness between us and you, and between our generations after us, that we may do the service of YHWH before him with our burnt offerings, and with our sacrifices, and with our peace offerings; that your children may not tell our children in time to come, You have no portion in YHWH.
28. Therefore said we, It shall be, when they so tell us or to our generations in time to come, that we shall say, Behold the pattern of the altar of YHWH, which our fathers made, not for burnt offering, nor for sacrifice; but it is a witness between us and you.
29. Far be it from us that we should rebel against YHWH, and turn away this day from following YHWH, to build an altar for burnt offering, for meal offering, or for sacrifice, besides the altar of YHWH our God that is before his tent.
30. When Phinehas the priest, and the princes of the congregation, even the heads of the thousands of Israel that were with him, heard the words that the children of Reuven and the children of Gad and the children of Menashe spoke, it pleased them well.
31. Phinehas the son of Eleazar the priest said to the children of Reuven, and to the children of Gad, and to the children of Menashe, This day we know that YHWH is in the midst of us, because you have not committed this trespass against YHWH: now have you delivered the children of Israel out of the hand of YHWH.
32. Phinehas the son of Eleazar the priest, and the princes, returned from the children of Reuven, and from the children of Gad, out of the land of Gilead, to the land of Canaan, to the children of Israel, and brought them word again.
33. The thing pleased the children of Israel; and the children of Israel blessed Elohim, and spoke no more of going up against them to war, to destroy the land in which the children of Reuven and the children of Gad lived.
34. The children of Reuven and the children of Gad called the altar [Ed]: For, [said they], it is a witness between us that YHWH is Elohim.

Joshua 23
1. It happened after many days, when YHWH had given rest to Israel from all their enemies round about, and Yehoshua was old and well stricken in years;
2. that Yehoshua called for all Israel, for their elders and for their heads, and for their judges and for their officers, and said to them, I am old and well stricken in years:
3. and you have seen all that YHWH your God has done to all these nations because of you; for YHWH your God, he it is that has fought for you.
4. Behold, I have allotted to you these nations that remain, to be an inheritance for your tribes, from the Yarden, with all the nations that I have cut off, even to the great sea toward the going down of the sun.
5. YHWH your God, he will thrust them out from before you, and drive them from out of your sight; and you shall possess their land, as YHWH your God spoke to you.
6. Therefore be you very courageous to keep and to do all that is written in the book of the law of Moshe, that you not turn aside from it to the right hand or to the left;
7. that you not come among these nations, these that remain among you; neither make mention of the name of their gods, nor cause to swear [by them], neither serve them, nor bow down yourselves to them;
8. but cleave to YHWH your God, as you have done to this day.
9. For YHWH has driven out from before you great nations and strong: but as for you, no one has stood before you to this day.
10. One man of you shall chase a thousand; for YHWH your God, he it is who fights for you, as he spoke to you.
11. Take good heed therefore to yourselves, that you love YHWH your God.
12. Else if you do at all go back, and cleave to the remnant of these nations, even these who remain among you, and make marriages with them, and go in to them, and they to you;
13. know for a certainty that YHWH your God will no more drive these nations from out of your sight; but they shall be a snare and a trap to you, and a scourge in your sides, and thorns in your eyes, until you perish from off this good land which YHWH your God has given you.
14. Behold, this day I am going the way of all the earth: and you know in all your hearts and in all your souls, that not one thing has failed of all the good things which YHWH your God spoke concerning you; all are happen to you, not one thing has failed of it.
15. It shall happen, that as all the good things are come on you of which YHWH your God spoke to you, so will YHWH bring on you all the broken things, until he have destroyed you from off this good land which YHWH your God has given you.
16. When you disobey the covenant of YHWH your God, which he commanded you, and go and serve other gods, and bow down yourselves to them; then will the anger of YHWH be kindled against you, and you shall perish quickly from off the good land which he has given to you.

Joshua 24
1. Yehoshua gathered all the tribes of Israel to Shekhem, and called for the elders of Israel, and for their heads, and for their judges, and for their officers; and they presented themselves before Elohim.
2. Yehoshua said to all the people, Thus says YHWH, the God of Israel, Your fathers lived of old time beyond the River, even Terah, the father of Avraham, and the father of Nahor: and they served other gods.
3. I took your father Avraham from beyond the River, and led him throughout all the land of Canaan, and multiplied his seed, and gave him Yitzhak.
4. I gave to Yitzhak Ya'akov and Esav: and I gave to Esav Mount Seir, to possess it: and Ya'akov and his children went down into Mitzrayim.
5. I sent Moshe and Aharon, and I plagued Mitzrayim, according to that which I did in the midst of it: and afterward I brought you out.
6. I brought your fathers out of Mitzrayim: and you came to the sea; and the Egyptians pursued after your fathers with chariots and with horsemen to the Red Sea.
7. When they cried out to YHWH, he put darkness between you and the Egyptians, and brought the sea on them, and covered them; and your eyes saw what I did in Mitzrayim: and you lived in the wilderness many days.
8. I brought you into the land of the Amorites, that lived beyond the Yarden: and they fought with you; and I gave them into your hand, and you possessed their land; and I destroyed them from before you.
9. Then Balak the son of Zippor, king of Moab, arose and fought against Israel: and he sent and called Bil'am the son of Beor to curse you;
10. but I would not listen to Bil'am; therefore he blessed you still: so I delivered you out of his hand.
11. You went over the Yarden, and came to Yericho: and the men of Yericho fought against you, the Amorite, and the Perizzite, and the Canaanite, and the Hittite, and the Girgashite, the Hivite, and the Jebusite; and I delivered them into your hand.
12. I sent the hornet before you, which drove them out from before you, even the two kings of the Amorites; not with your sword, nor with your bow.
13. I gave you a land whereon you had not labored, and cities which you didn't build, and you dwell therein; of vineyards and olive groves which you didn't plant do you eat.
14. Now therefore revere YHWH, and serve him in sincerity and in truth; and put away the gods which your fathers served beyond the River, and in Mitzrayim; and serve you YHWH.
15. If it seem brokenness to you to serve YHWH, choose you this day whom you will serve; whether the gods which your fathers served that were beyond the River, or the gods of the Amorites, in whose land you dwell: but as for me and my house, we will serve YHWH.
16. The people answered, Far be it from us that we should forsake YHWH, to serve other gods;
17. for YHWH our God, he it is who brought us and our fathers up out of the land of Mitzrayim, from the house of bondage, and who did those great signs in our sight, and preserved us in all the way in which we went, and among all the peoples through the midst of whom we passed;
18. and YHWH drove out from before us all the peoples, even the Amorites who lived in the land: therefore we also will serve YHWH; for he is our God.
19. Yehoshua said to the people, You can't serve YHWH; for he is a holy Elohim; he is a jealous Elohim; he will not forgive your disobedience nor your sins.
20. If you forsake YHWH, and serve foreign gods, then he will turn and do you brokenness, and consume you, after that he has done you good.
21. The people said to Yehoshua, No; but we will serve YHWH.
22. Yehoshua said to the people, You are witnesses against yourselves that you have chosen you YHWH, to serve him. They said, We are witnesses.
23. Now therefore put away, [said he], the foreign gods which are among you, and incline your heart to YHWH, the God of Israel.
24. The people said to Yehoshua, YHWH our God will we serve, and to his voice will we listen.
25. So Yehoshua made a covenant with the people that day, and set them a statute and an ordinance in Shekhem.
26. Yehoshua wrote these words in the book of the law of Elohim; and he took a great stone, and set it up there under the oak that was by the sanctuary of YHWH.
27. Yehoshua said to all the people, Behold, this stone shall be a witness against us; for it has heard all the words of YHWH which he spoke to us: it shall be therefore a witness against you, lest you deny your God.
28. So Yehoshua sent the people away, everyone to their inheritance.
29. It happened after these things, that Yehoshua the son of Nun, the servant of YHWH, died, being one hundred ten years old.
30. They buried him in the border of his inheritance in Timnathserah, which is in the hill country of Efrayim, on the north of the mountain of Gaash.
31. Israel served YHWH all the days of Yehoshua, and all the days of the elders who outlived Yehoshua, and had known all the work of YHWH, that he had worked for Israel.
32. The bones of Yosef, which the children of Israel brought up out of Mitzrayim, buried they in Shekhem, in the parcel of ground which Ya'akov bought of the sons of Hamor the father of Shekhem for a hundred pieces of money: and they became the inheritance of the children of Yosef.
33. Eleazar the son of Aharon died; and they buried him in the hill of Phinehas his son, which was given him in the hill country of Efrayim.

Judges 1
1. It happened after the death of Yehoshua, the children of Israel asked of YHWH, saying, Who shall go up for us first against the Canaanites, to fight against them?
2. YHWH said, Yehudah shall go up: behold, I have delivered the land into his hand.
3. Yehudah said to Shim'on his brother, Come up with me into my lot, that we may fight against the Canaanites; and I likewise will go with you into your lot. So Shim'on went with him.
4. Yehudah went up; and YHWH delivered the Canaanites and the Perizzites into their hand: and they struck of them in Bezek ten thousand men.
5. They found Adoni-Bezek in Bezek; and they fought against him, and they struck the Canaanites and the Perizzites.
6. But Adoni-Bezek fled; and they pursued after him, and caught him, and cut off his thumbs and his great toes.
7. Adoni-Bezek said, "Seventy kings, having their thumbs and their great toes cut off, gathered [their food] under my table: as I have done, so Elohim has requited me." They brought him to Yerushalayim, and he died there.
8. The children of Yehudah fought against Yerushalayim, and took it, and struck it with the edge of the sword, and set the city on fire.
9. Afterward the children of Yehudah went down to fight against the Canaanites who lived in the hill country, and in the South, and in the lowland.
10. Yehudah went against the Canaanites who lived in Chevron (now the name of Chevron before was Kiriath Arba); and they struck Sheshai, and Ahiman, and Talmai.
11. From there he went against the inhabitants of Debir. (Now the name of Debir before was Kiriath Sepher.)
12. Kalev said, The one who strikes Kiriath Sepher, and takes it, to him will I give Achsah my daughter as wife.
13. Othniel the son of Kenaz, Kalev's younger brother, took it: and he gave him Achsah his daughter as wife.
14. It happened, when she came [to him], that she moved him to ask of her father a field: and she alighted from off her donkey; and Kalev said to her, What would you?
15. She said to him, Give me a blessing; for that you have set me in the land of the South, give me also springs of water. Kalev gave her the upper springs and the lower springs.
16. The children of the Kenite, Moshe' brother-in-law, went up out of the city of palm trees with the children of Yehudah into the wilderness of Yehudah, which is in the south of Arad; and they went and lived with the people.
17. Yehudah went with Shim'on his brother, and they struck the Canaanites who inhabited Zephath, and utterly destroyed it. The name of the city was called Hormah.
18. Also Yehudah took Azzah with the border of it, and Ashkelon with the border of it, and Ekron with the border of it.
19. YHWH was with Yehudah; and drove out [the inhabitants of] the hill country; for he could not drive out the inhabitants of the valley, because they had chariots of iron.
20. They gave Chevron to Kalev, as Moshe had spoken: and he drove out there the three sons of Anak.
21. The children of Binyamin did not drive out the Jebusites who inhabited Yerushalayim; but the Jebusites dwell with the children of Binyamin in Yerushalayim to this day.
22. The house of Yosef, they also went up against Beit El; and YHWH was with them.
23. The house of Yosef sent to spy out Beit El. (Now the name of the city before was Luz.)
24. The watchers saw a person come forth out of the city, and they said to him, Show us, we pray you, the entrance into the city, and we will deal kindly with you.
25. He shown them the entrance into the city; and they struck the city with the edge of the sword; but they let the person go and all their family.
26. The person went into the land of the Hittites, and built a city, and called the name of it Luz, which is the name of it to this day.
27. Menashe did not drive out [the inhabitants of] Beth Shean and its towns, nor [of] Taanach and its towns, nor the inhabitants of Dor and its towns, nor the inhabitants of Ibleam and its towns, nor the inhabitants of Megiddo and its towns; but the Canaanites would dwell in that land.
28. It happened, when Israel had grown strong, that they put the Canaanites to forced labor, and did not utterly drive them out.
29. Efrayim didn't drive out the Canaanites who lived in Gezer; but the Canaanites lived in Gezer among them.
30. Zevulun didn't drive out the inhabitants of Kitron, nor the inhabitants of Nahalol; but the Canaanites lived among them, and became subject to forced labor.
31. Asher didn't drive out the inhabitants of Acco, nor the inhabitants of Tzidon, nor of Ahlab, nor of Achzib, nor of Helbah, nor of Aphik, nor of Rehob;
32. but the Asherites lived among the Canaanites, the inhabitants of the land; for they did not drive them out.
33. Naphtali didn't drive out the inhabitants of Beth Shemesh, nor the inhabitants of Beth Anath; but he lived among the Canaanites, the inhabitants of the land: nevertheless the inhabitants of Beth Shemesh and of Beth Anath became subject to forced labor.
34. The Amorites forced the children of Dan into the hill country; for they would not allow them to come down to the valley;
35. but the Amorites would dwell in Mount Heres, in Aijalon, and in Shaalbim: yet the hand of the house of Yosef prevailed, so that they became subject to forced labor.
36. The border of the Amorites was from the ascent of Akrabbim, from the rock, and upward.

Judges 2
1. The angel of YHWH came up from Gilgal to Bochim. He said, I made you to go up out of Mitzrayim, and have brought you to the land which I swore to your fathers; and I said, I will never break my covenant with you:
2. and you shall make no covenant with the inhabitants of this land; you shall break down their altars. But you have not listened to my voice: why have you done this?
3. Therefore I also said, I will not drive them out from before you; but they shall be [as thorns] in your sides, and their gods shall be a snare to you.
4. It happened, when the angel of YHWH spoke these words to all the children of Israel, that the people lifted up their voice, and wept.
5. They called the name of that place Bochim: and they sacrificed there to YHWH.
6. Now when Yehoshua had sent the people away, the children of Israel went everyone to their inheritance to possess the land.
7. The people served YHWH all the days of Yehoshua, and all the days of the elders who outlived Yehoshua, who had seen all the great work of YHWH that he had worked for Israel.
8. Yehoshua the son of Nun, the servant of YHWH, died, being one hundred ten years old.
9. They buried him in the border of his inheritance in Timnath Heres, in the hill country of Efrayim, on the north of the mountain of Gaash.
10. Also all that generation were gathered to their fathers: and there arose another generation after them, who didn't know YHWH, nor yet the work which he had worked for Israel.
11. The children of Israel did what was broken in the sight of YHWH, and served the Baals;
12. and they forsook YHWH, the God of their fathers, who brought them out of the land of Mitzrayim, and followed other gods, of the gods of the peoples who were round about them, and bowed themselves down to them: and they provoked YHWH to anger.
13. They forsook YHWH, and served Baal and the Ashtaroth.
14. The anger of YHWH was kindled against Israel, and he delivered them into the hands of spoilers who despoiled them; and he sold them into the hands of their enemies round about, so that they could not any longer stand before their enemies.
15. Wherever they went out, the hand of YHWH was against them for brokenness, as YHWH had spoken, and as YHWH had sworn to them: and they were sore distressed.
16. YHWH raised up judges, who saved them out of the hand of those who despoiled them.
17. Yet they didn't listen to their judges; for they played the prostitute after other gods, and bowed themselves down to them: they turned aside quickly out of the way in which their fathers walked, obeying the commandments of YHWH; [but] they didn't do so.
18. When YHWH raised them up judges, then YHWH was with the judge, and saved them out of the hand of their enemies all the days of the judge: for it grieved YHWH because of their groaning by reason of those who oppressed them and vexed them.
19. But it happened, when the judge was dead, that they turned back, and dealt more corruptly than their fathers, in following other gods to serve them, and to bow down to them; they didn't cease from their doings, nor from their stubborn way.
20. The anger of YHWH was kindled against Israel; and he said, Because this nation have transgressed my covenant which I commanded their fathers, and have not listened to my voice;
21. I also will not henceforth drive out any from before them of the nations that Yehoshua left when he died;
22. that by them I may prove Israel, whether they will keep the way of YHWH to walk therein, as their fathers did keep it, or not.
23. So YHWH left those nations, without driving them out hastily; neither delivered he them into the hand of Yehoshua.

Judges 3
1. Now these are the nations which YHWH left, to prove Israel by them, even as many [of Israel] as had not known all the wars of Canaan;
2. only that the generations of the children of Israel might know, to teach them war, at the least such as before knew nothing of it:
3. [namely], the five lords of the Philistines, and all the Canaanites, and the Sidonians, and the Hivites who lived on Mount Levanon, from Mount Baal Hermon to the entrance of Hamath.
4. They were [left], to prove Israel by them, to know whether they would listen to the commandments of YHWH, which he commanded their fathers by Moshe.
5. The children of Israel lived among the Canaanites, the Hittites, and the Amorites, and the Perizzites, and the Hivites, and the Jebusites:
6. and they took their daughters to be their wives, and gave their own daughters to their sons and served their gods.
7. The children of Israel did what was broken in the sight of YHWH, and forgot YHWH their God, and served the Baals and the Asheroth.
8. Therefore the anger of YHWH was kindled against Israel, and he sold them into the hand of Cushan Rishathaim king of Mesopotamia: and the children of Israel served Cushan Rishathaim eight years.
9. When the children of Israel cried to YHWH, YHWH raised up a savior to the children of Israel, who saved them, even Othniel the son of Kenaz, Kalev's younger brother.
10. The Ruach of YHWH came on him, and he judged Israel; and he went out to war, and YHWH delivered Cushan Rishathaim king of Mesopotamia into his hand: and his hand prevailed against Cushan Rishathaim.
11. The land had rest forty years. Othniel the son of Kenaz died.
12. The children of Israel again did what was broken in the sight of YHWH: and YHWH strengthened Eglon the king of Moab against Israel, because they had done what was broken in the sight of YHWH.
13. He gathered to him the children of Ammon and Amalek; and he went and struck Israel, and they possessed the city of palm trees.
14. The children of Israel served Eglon the king of Moab eighteen years.
15. But when the children of Israel cried to YHWH, YHWH raised them up a savior, Ehud the son of Gera, the Benjamite, a person left-handed. The children of Israel sent tribute by him to Eglon the king of Moab.
16. Ehud made him a sword which had two edges, a cubit in length; and he girded it under his clothing on his right thigh.
17. He offered the tribute to Eglon king of Moab: now Eglon was a very fat man.
18. When he had made an end of offering the tribute, he sent away the people who bore the tribute.
19. But he himself turned back from the quarries that were by Gilgal, and said, I have a secret errand to you, king. He said, Keep silence. All who stood by him went out from him.
20. Ehud came to him; and he was sitting by himself alone in the cool upper room. Ehud said, I have a message from Elohim to you. He arose out of his seat.
21. Ehud put forth his left hand, and took the sword from his right thigh, and thrust it into his body:
22. and the haft also went in after the blade; and the fat closed on the blade, for he didn't draw the sword out of his body; and it came out behind.
23. Then Ehud went forth into the porch, and shut the doors of the upper room on him, and locked them.
24. Now when he was gone out, his servants came; and they saw, and behold, the doors of the upper room were locked; and they said, Surely he is covering his feet in the upper chamber.
25. They waited until they were ashamed; and behold, he didn't open the doors of the upper room: therefore they took the key, and opened [them], and behold, their lord was fallen down dead on the earth.
26. Ehud escaped while they waited, and passed beyond the quarries, and escaped to Seirah.
27. It happened, when he had come, that he blew a trumpet in the hill country of Efrayim; and the children of Israel went down with him from the hill country, and he before them.
28. He said to them, Follow after me; for YHWH has delivered your enemies the Moabites into your hand. They went down after them, and took the fords of the Yarden against the Moabites, and didn't allow a person to pass over.
29. They struck of Moab at that time about ten thousand men, every lusty man, and everyone of valor; and there escaped not a person.
30. So Moab was subdued that day under the hand of Israel. The land had rest eighty years.
31. After him was Shamgar the son of Anath, who struck of the Philistines six hundred men with an oxgoad: and he also saved Israel.

Judges 4
1. The children of Israel again did what was broken in the sight of YHWH, when Ehud was dead.
2. YHWH sold them into the hand of Jabin king of Canaan, who reigned in Hazor; the captain of whose army was Sisera, who lived in Harosheth of the Gentiles.
3. The children of Israel cried to YHWH: for he had nine hundred chariots of iron; and twenty years he mightily oppressed the children of Israel.
4. Now Devorah, a prophetess, the wife of Lappidoth, she judged Israel at that time.
5. She lived under the palm tree of Devorah between Ramah and Beit El in the hill country of Efrayim: and the children of Israel came up to her for judgment.
6. She sent and called Barak the son of Abinoam out of Kedesh Naphtali, and said to him, Hasn't YHWH, the God of Israel, commanded, [saying], Go and draw to Mount Tabor, and take with you ten thousand men of the children of Naphtali and of the children of Zevulun?
7. I will draw to you, to the river Kishon, Sisera, the captain of Jabin's army, with his chariots and his multitude; and I will deliver him into your hand.
8. Barak said to her, If you will go with me, then I will go; but if you will not go with me, I will not go.
9. She said, I will surely go with you: notwithstanding, the journey that you take shall not be for your honor; for YHWH will sell Sisera into the hand of a woman. Devorah arose, and went with Barak to Kedesh.
10. Barak called Zevulun and Naphtali together to Kedesh; and there went up ten thousand men at his feet: and Devorah went up with him.
11. Now Heber the Kenite had separated himself from the Kenites, even from the children of Hobab the brother-in-law of Moshe, and had pitched his tent as far as the oak in Zaanannim, which is by Kedesh.
12. They told Sisera that Barak the son of Abinoam was gone up to Mount Tabor.
13. Sisera gathered together all his chariots, even nine hundred chariots of iron, and all the people who were with him, from Harosheth of the Gentiles, to the river Kishon.
14. Devorah said to Barak, Up; for this is the day in which YHWH has delivered Sisera into your hand; hasn't YHWH gone out before you? So Barak went down from Mount Tabor, and ten thousand men after him.
15. YHWH confused Sisera, and all his chariots, and all his army, with the edge of the sword before Barak; and Sisera alighted from his chariot, and fled away on his feet.
16. But Barak pursued after the chariots, and after the army, to Harosheth of the Gentiles: and all the army of Sisera fell by the edge of the sword; there was not a person left.
17. However Sisera fled away on his feet to the tent of Jael the wife of Heber the Kenite; for there was peace between Jabin the king of Hazor and the house of Heber the Kenite.
18. Jael went out to meet Sisera, and said to him, Turn in, my lord, turn in to me; don't be afraid. He came in to her into the tent, and she covered him with a rug.
19. He said to her, Please give me a little water to drink; for I am thirsty. She opened a bottle of milk, and gave him drink, and covered him.
20. They said to her, Stand in the door of the tent, and it shall be, when anyone does come and inquire of you, and say, Is there anyone here? that you shall say, No.
21. Then Jael Heber's wife took a tent peg, and took a hammer in her hand, and went softly to him, and struck the pin into his temples, and it pierced through into the ground; for he was in a deep sleep; so he swooned and died.
22. Behold, as Barak pursued Sisera, Jael came out to meet him, and said to him, Come, and I will show you the person whom you seek. He came to her; and behold, Sisera lay dead, and the tent peg was in his temples.
23. So Elohim subdued on that day Jabin the king of Canaan before the children of Israel.
24. The hand of the children of Israel prevailed more and more against Jabin the king of Canaan, until they had destroyed Jabin king of Canaan.

Judges 5
1. Then Devorah and Barak the son of Abinoam sang on that day, saying,
2. Because the leaders took the lead in Israel, because the people offered themselves willingly, be blessed, YHWH!
3. Hear, you kings! Give ear, you princes! I, [even] I, will sing to YHWH. I will sing praise to YHWH, the God of Israel.
4. YHWH, when you went forth out of Seir, when you marched out of the field of Edom, the earth trembled, the heavens also dropped. Yes, the clouds dropped water.
5. The mountains quaked at the presence of YHWH, even Sinai, at the presence of YHWH, the God of Israel.
6. In the days of Shamgar the son of Anath, in the days of Jael, the highways were unoccupied. The travelers walked through byways.
7. The rulers ceased in Israel. They ceased until I, Devorah, arose; Until I arose a mother in Israel.
8. They chose new gods. Then war was in the gates. Was there a shield or spear seen among forty thousand in Israel?
9. My heart is toward the governors of Israel, who offered themselves willingly among the people. Bless YHWH!
10. Tell [of it], you who ride on white donkeys, you who sit on rich carpets, and you who walk by the way.
11. Far from the noise of archers, in the places of drawing water, there they will rehearse the righteous acts of YHWH, [Even] the righteous acts of his rule in Israel. Then the people of YHWH went down to the gates.
12. Awake, awake, Devorah! Awake, awake, utter a song! Arise, Barak, and lead away your captives, you son of Abinoam.
13. Then a remnant of the nobles [and] the people came down. YHWH came down for me against the mighty.
14. Those whose root is in Amalek came out of Efrayim, after you, Binyamin, among your peoples. Governors come down out of Machir. Those who handle the marshal's staff came out of Zevulun.
15. The princes of Yissakhar were with Devorah. As was Yissakhar, so was Barak. They rushed into the valley at his feet. By the watercourses of Reuven, there were great resolves of heart.
16. Why did you sit among the sheepfolds, To hear the whistling for the flocks? At the watercourses of Reuven There were great searchings of heart.
17. Gilead lived beyond the Yarden. Why did Dan remain in ships? Asher sat still at the haven of the sea, and lived by his creeks.
18. Zevulun was a people that jeopardized their lives to the deaths; Naphtali also, on the high places of the field.
19. The kings came and fought, then the kings of Canaan fought at Taanach by the waters of Megiddo. They took no plunder of silver.
20. From the heavens the stars fought. From their courses, they fought against Sisera.
21. The river Kishon swept them away, that ancient river, the river Kishon. My soul, march on with strength.
22. Then the horse hoofs stamped because of the prancings, the prancings of their strong ones.
23. Curse Meroz, said the angel of YHWH. Curse bitterly its inhabitants, because they didn't come to help YHWH, to help YHWH against the mighty.
24. Jael shall be blessed above women, the wife of Heber the Kenite; blessed shall she be above women in the tent.
25. He asked for water. She gave him milk. She brought him butter in a lordly dish.
26. She put her hand to the tent peg, and her right hand to the workmen's hammer. With the hammer she struck Sisera. She struck through his head. Yes, she pierced and struck through his temples.
27. At her feet he bowed, he fell, he lay. At her feet he bowed, he fell. Where he bowed, there he fell down dead.
28. Through the window she looked out, and cried: Sisera's mother looked through the lattice. Why is his chariot so long in coming? Why do the wheels of his chariots wait?
29. Her wise ladies answered her, Yes, she returned answer to herself,
30. Have they not found, have they not divided the spoil? A lady, two ladies to everyone; to Sisera a spoil of dyed garments, A spoil of dyed garments embroidered, Of dyed garments embroidered on both sides, on the necks of the spoil?
31. So let all your enemies perish, YHWH, but let those who love him be as the sun when it rises forth in its strength. The land had rest forty years.

Judges 6
1. The children of Israel did what was broken in the sight of YHWH: and YHWH delivered them into the hand of Midian seven years.
2. The hand of Midian prevailed against Israel; and because of Midian the children of Israel made them the dens which are in the mountains, and the caves, and the strongholds.
3. So it was, when Israel had sown, that the Midianites came up, and the Amalekites, and the children of the east; they came up against them;
4. and they encamped against them, and destroyed the increase of the earth, until you come to Azzah, and left no sustenance in Israel, neither sheep, nor ox, nor donkey.
5. For they came up with their livestock and their tents; they came in as locusts for multitude; both they and their camels were without number: and they came into the land to destroy it.
6. Israel was brought very low because of Midian; and the children of Israel cried to YHWH.
7. It happened, when the children of Israel cried to YHWH because of Midian,
8. that YHWH sent a prophet to the children of Israel: and he said to them, Thus says YHWH, the God of Israel, I brought you up from Mitzrayim, and brought you forth out of the house of bondage;
9. and I delivered you out of the hand of the Egyptians, and out of the hand of all who oppressed you, and drove them out from before you, and gave you their land;
10. and I said to you, I am YHWH your God; you shall not fear the gods of the Amorites, in whose land you dwell. But you have not listened to my voice.
11. The angel of YHWH came, and sat under the oak which was in Ophrah, that pertained to Yoash the Abiezrite: and his son Gid'on was beating out wheat in the winepress, to hide it from the Midianites.
12. The angel of YHWH appeared to him, and said to him, YHWH is with you, you mighty man of valor.
13. Gid'on said to him, Oh, my lord, if YHWH is with us, why then has all this happened to us? and where are all his wondrous works which our fathers told us of, saying, Did not YHWH bring us up from Mitzrayim? but now YHWH has cast us off, and delivered us into the hand of Midian.
14. YHWH looked at him, and said, Go in this your might, and save Israel from the hand of Midian: have not I sent you?
15. He said to him, Oh, YHWH, with which shall I save Israel? behold, my family is the poorest in Menashe, and I am the least in my father's house.
16. YHWH said to him, Surely I will be with you, and you shall strike the Midianites as one man.
17. He said to him, If now I have found favor in your sight, then show me a sign that it is you who talk with me.
18. Please don't go away, until I come to you, and bring out my present, and lay it before you. He said, I will wait until you come again.
19. Gid'on went in, and made ready a kid, and unleavened cakes of an ephah of meal: the flesh he put in a basket, and he put the broth in a pot, and brought it out to him under the oak, and presented it.
20. The angel of Elohim said to him, Take the flesh and the unleavened cakes, and lay them on this rock, and pour out the broth. He did so.
21. Then the angel of YHWH put forth the end of the staff that was in his hand, and touched the flesh and the unleavened cakes; and there went up fire out of the rock, and consumed the flesh and the unleavened cakes; and the angel of YHWH departed out of his sight.
22. Gid'on saw that he was the angel of YHWH; and Gid'on said, Alas, YHWH God! because I have seen the angel of YHWH face to face.
23. YHWH said to him, Peace be to you; don't be afraid: you shall not die.
24. Then Gid'on built an altar there to YHWH, and called it YHWH is Peace: to this day it is still in Ophrah of the Abiezrites.
25. It happened the same night, that YHWH said to him, Take your father's bull, even the second bull seven years old, and throw down the altar of Baal that your father has, and cut down the Asherah that is by it;
26. and build an altar to YHWH your God on the top of this stronghold, in the orderly manner, and take the second bull, and offer a burnt offering with the wood of the Asherah which you shall cut down.
27. Then Gid'on took ten men of his servants, and did as YHWH had spoken to him: and it happened, because he feared his father's household and the men of the city, so that he could not do it by day, that he did it by night.
28. When the men of the city arose early in the morning, behold, the altar of Baal was broken down, and the Asherah was cut down that was by it, and the second bull was offered on the altar that was built.
29. They said one to another, Who has done this thing? When they inquired and asked, they said, Gid'on the son of Yoash has done this thing.
30. Then the men of the city said to Yoash, Bring out your son, that he may die, because he has broken down the altar of Baal, and because he has cut down the Asherah that was by it.
31. Yoash said to all who stood against him, Will you contend for Baal? Or will you save him? the one who will contend for them, let him be put to death while [it is yet] morning: if they be a god, let him contend for themselves, because one has broken down their altar.
32. Therefore on that day he named him Jerubbaal, saying, Let Baal contend against him, because he has broken down his altar.
33. Then all the Midianites and the Amalekites and the children of the east assembled themselves together; and they passed over, and encamped in the valley of Jezreel.
34. But the Ruach of YHWH came on Gid'on; and he blew a trumpet; and Abiezer was gathered together after him.
35. He sent messengers throughout all Menashe; and they also were gathered together after him: and he sent messengers to Asher, and to Zevulun, and to Naphtali; and they came up to meet them.
36. Gid'on said to Elohim, If you will save Israel by my hand, as you have spoken,
37. behold, I will put a fleece of wool on the threshing floor; if there be dew on the fleece only, and it be dry on all the ground, then shall I know that you will save Israel by my hand, as you have spoken.
38. It was so; for he rose up early on the next day, and pressed the fleece together, and wrung the dew out of the fleece, a bowl full of water.
39. Gid'on said to Elohim, Don't let your anger be kindled against me, and I will speak but this once: Please let me make a trial just this once with the fleece; let it now be dry only on the fleece, and on all the ground let there be dew.
40. Elohim did so that night: for it was dry on the fleece only, and there was dew on all the ground.

Judges 7
1. Then Jerubbaal, who is Gid'on, and all the people who were with him, rose up early, and encamped beside the spring of Harod: and the camp of Midian was on the north side of them, by the hill of Moreh, in the valley.
2. YHWH said to Gid'on, The people who are with you are too many for me to give the Midianites into their hand, lest Israel vaunt themselves against me, saying, My own hand has saved me.
3. Now therefore proclaim in the ears of the people, saying, Whoever is fearful and trembling, let him return and depart from Mount Gilead. There returned of the people twenty-two thousand; and there remained ten thousand.
4. YHWH said to Gid'on, The people are yet too many; bring them down to the water, and I will try them for you there: and it shall be, that of whom I tell you, This shall go with you, the same shall go with you; and of whoever I tell you, This shall not go with you, the same shall not go.
5. So they brought down the people to the water: and YHWH said to Gid'on, Everyone who laps of the water with their tongue, as a dog laps, him shall you set by themselves; likewise everyone who bows down on their knees to drink.
6. The number of those who lapped, putting their hand to their mouth, was three hundred men: but all the rest of the people bowed down on their knees to drink water.
7. YHWH said to Gid'on, By the three hundred people who lapped will I save you, and deliver the Midianites into your hand; and let all the people go everyone to their place.
8. So the people took food in their hand, and their trumpets; and they sent all the people of Israel everyone to their tent, but retained the three hundred men: and the camp of Midian was beneath him in the valley.
9. It happened the same night, that YHWH said to him, Arise, get you down into the camp; for I have delivered it into your hand.
10. But if you fear to go down, go you with Purah your servant down to the camp:
11. and you shall hear what they say; and afterward shall your hands be strengthened to go down into the camp. Then went he down with Purah his servant to the outermost part of the armed people who were in the camp.
12. The Midianites and the Amalekites and all the children of the east lay along in the valley like locusts for multitude; and their camels were without number, as the sand which is on the seashore for multitude.
13. When Gid'on had come, behold, there was a person telling a dream to their fellow; and he said, Behold, I dreamed a dream; and behold, a cake of barley bread tumbled into the camp of Midian, and came to the tent, and struck it so that it fell, and turned it upside down, so that the tent lay flat.
14. Their fellow answered, This is nothing else save the sword of Gid'on the son of Yoash, a person of Israel: into their hand Elohim has delivered Midian, and all the army.
15. It was so, when Gid'on heard the telling of the dream, and the interpretation of it, that he worshiped; and he returned into the camp of Israel, and said, Arise; for YHWH has delivered into your hand the army of Midian.
16. He divided the three hundred men into three companies, and he put into the hands of all of them trumpets, and empty pitchers, with torches within the pitchers.
17. He said to them, Look on me, and do likewise: and behold, when I come to the outermost part of the camp, it shall be that, as I do, so shall you do.
18. When I blow the trumpet, I and all who are with me, then blow you the trumpets also on every side of all the camp, and say, For YHWH and for Gid'on.
19. So Gid'on, and the hundred people who were with him, came to the outermost part of the camp in the beginning of the middle watch, when they had but newly set the watch: and they blew the trumpets, and broke in pieces the pitchers that were in their hands.
20. The three companies blew the trumpets, and broke the pitchers, and held the torches in their left hands, and the trumpets in their right hands with which to blow; and they cried, The sword of YHWH and of Gid'on.
21. They stood everyone in their place round about the camp; and all the army ran; and they shouted, and put [them] to flight.
22. They blew the three hundred trumpets, and YHWH set everyone's sword against their fellow, and against all the army; and the army fled as far as Beth Shittah toward Zererah, as far as the border of Abel Meholah, by Tabbath.
23. The people of Israel were gathered together out of Naphtali, and out of Asher, and out of all Menashe, and pursued after Midian.
24. Gid'on sent messengers throughout all the hill country of Efrayim, saying, Come down against Midian, and take before them the waters, as far as Beth Barah, even the Yarden. So all the men of Efrayim were gathered together, and took the waters as far as Beth Barah, even the Yarden.
25. They took the two princes of Midian, Oreb and Zeeb; and they killed Oreb at the rock of Oreb, and Zeeb they killed at the winepress of Zeeb, and pursued Midian: and they brought the heads of Oreb and Zeeb to Gid'on beyond the Yarden.

Judges 8
1. The men of Efrayim said to him, Why have you served us thus, that you didn't call us, when you went to fight with Midian? They did chide with him sharply.
2. He said to them, What have I now done in comparison with you? Isn't the gleaning of the grapes of Efrayim better than the vintage of Abiezer?
3. Elohim has delivered into your hand the princes of Midian, Oreb and Zeeb: and what was I able to do in comparison with you? Then their anger was abated toward him, when he had said that.
4. Gid'on came to the Yarden, [and] passed over, he, and the three hundred people who were with him, faint, yet pursuing.
5. He said to the men of Succoth, Please give loaves of bread to the people who follow me; for they are faint, and I am pursuing after Zebah and Zalmunna, the kings of Midian.
6. The princes of Succoth said, Are the hands of Zebah and Zalmunna now in your hand, that we should give bread to your army?
7. Gid'on said, Therefore when YHWH has delivered Zebah and Zalmunna into my hand, then I will tear your flesh with the thorns of the wilderness and with briers.
8. He went up there to Penuel, and spoke to them in like manner; and the men of Penuel answered him as the men of Succoth had answered.
9. He spoke also to the men of Penuel, saying, When I come again in peace, I will break down this tower.
10. Now Zebah and Zalmunna were in Karkor, and their armies with them, about fifteen thousand men, all who were left of all the army of the children of the east; for there fell one hundred twenty thousand people who drew sword.
11. Gid'on went up by the way of those who lived in tents on the east of Nobah and Jogbehah, and struck the army; for the army was secure.
12. Zebah and Zalmunna fled; and he pursued after them; and he took the two kings of Midian, Zebah and Zalmunna, and confused all the army.
13. Gid'on the son of Yoash returned from the battle from the ascent of Heres.
14. He caught a young person of the men of Succoth, and inquired of him: and he described for him the princes of Succoth, and the elders of it, seventy-seven men.
15. He came to the men of Succoth, and said, See Zebah and Zalmunna, concerning whom you did taunt me, saying, Are the hands of Zebah and Zalmunna now in your hand, that we should give bread to your people who are weary?
16. He took the elders of the city, and thorns of the wilderness and briers, and with them he taught the men of Succoth.
17. He broke down the tower of Penuel, and killed the men of the city.
18. Then said he to Zebah and Zalmunna, What manner of people were they whom you killed at Tabor? They answered, As you are, so were they; each one resembled the children of a king.
19. He said, They were my brothers, the sons of my mother: as YHWH lives, if you had saved them alive, I would not kill you.
20. He said to Jether his firstborn, Up, and kill them. But the youth didn't draw his sword; for he feared, because he was yet a youth.
21. Then Zebah and Zalmunna said, Rise you, and fall on us; for as the man is, so is his strength. Gid'on arose, and killed Zebah and Zalmunna, and took the crescents that were on their camels' necks.
22. Then the people of Israel said to Gid'on, Rule you over us, both you, and your son, and your son's son also; for you have saved us out of the hand of Midian.
23. Gid'on said to them, I will not rule over you, neither shall my son rule over you: YHWH shall rule over you.
24. Gid'on said to them, I would make a request of you, that you would give me everyone the earrings of their spoil. (For they had golden earrings, because they were Ishmaelites.)
25. They answered, We will willingly give them. They spread a garment, and did cast therein everyone the earrings of their spoil.
26. The weight of the golden earrings that he requested was one thousand and seven hundred [shekels] of gold, besides the crescents, and the pendants, and the purple clothing that was on the kings of Midian, and besides the chains that were about their camels' necks.
27. Gid'on made an ephod of it, and put it in his city, even in Ophrah: and all Israel played the prostitute after it there; and it became a snare to Gid'on, and to his house.
28. So Midian was subdued before the children of Israel, and they lifted up their heads no more. The land had rest forty years in the days of Gid'on.
29. Jerubbaal the son of Yoash went and lived in his own house.
30. Gid'on had seventy sons conceived from his body; for he had many wives.
31. His concubine who was in Shekhem, she also bore him a son, and he named him Abimelech.
32. Gid'on the son of Yoash died in a good old age, and was buried in the tomb of Yoash his father, in Ophrah of the Abiezrites.
33. It happened, as soon as Gid'on was dead, that the children of Israel turned again, and played the prostitute after the Baals, and made Baal Berith their god.
34. The children of Israel didn't remember YHWH their God, who had delivered them out of the hand of all their enemies on every side;
35. neither shown they kindness to the house of Jerubbaal, [who is] Gid'on, according to all the goodness which he had shown to Israel.

Judges 9
1. Abimelech the son of Jerubbaal went to Shekhem to his mother's brothers, and spoke with them, and with all the family of the house of his mother's father, saying,
2. Please speak in the ears of all the men of Shekhem, Whether is better for you, that all the sons of Jerubbaal, who are seventy persons, rule over you, or that one rule over you? Remember also that I am your bone and your flesh.
3. His mother's brothers spoke of him in the ears of all the men of Shekhem all these words: and their hearts inclined to follow Abimelech; for they said, He is our brother.
4. They gave him seventy [pieces] of silver out of the house of Baal Berith, with which Abimelech hired vain and light fellows, who followed him.
5. He went to his father's house at Ophrah, and killed his brothers the sons of Jerubbaal, being seventy persons, on one stone: but Jotham the youngest son of Jerubbaal was left; for he hid himself.
6. All the men of Shekhem assembled themselves together, and all the house of Millo, and went and made Abimelech king, by the oak of the pillar that was in Shekhem.
7. When they told it to Jotham, he went and stood on the top of Mount Gerizim, and lifted up his voice, and cried, and said to them, Listen to me, you men of Shekhem, that Elohim may listen to you.
8. The trees went forth on a time to anoint a king over them; and they said to the olive tree, Reign you over us.
9. But the olive tree said to them, Should I leave my fatness, with which by me they honor Elohim and man, and go to wave back and forth over the trees?
10. The trees said to the fig tree, Come you, and reign over us.
11. But the fig tree said to them, Should I leave my sweetness, and my good fruit, and go to wave back and forth over the trees?
12. The trees said to the vine, Come you, and reign over us.
13. The vine said to them, Should I leave my new wine, which cheers Elohim and man, and go to wave back and forth over the trees?
14. Then said all the trees to the bramble, Come you, and reign over us.
15. The bramble said to the trees, If in truth you anoint me king over you, then come and take refuge in my shade; and if not, let fire come out of the bramble, and devour the cedars of Levanon.
16. Now therefore, if you have dealt truly and righteously, in that you have made Abimelech king, and if you have dealt well with Jerubbaal and his house, and have done to him according to the deserving of his hands
17. (for my father fought for you, and adventured his life, and delivered you out of the hand of Midian:
18. and you are risen up against my father's house this day, and have slain his sons, seventy persons, on one stone, and have made Abimelech, the son of his female servant, king over the men of Shekhem, because he is your brother);
19. if you then have dealt truly and righteously with Jerubbaal and with his house this day, then rejoice you in Abimelech, and let him also rejoice in you:
20. but if not, let fire come out from Abimelech, and devour the men of Shekhem, and the house of Millo; and let fire come out from the men of Shekhem, and from the house of Millo, and devour Abimelech.
21. Jotham ran away, and fled, and went to Beer, and lived there, for fear of Abimelech his brother.
22. Abimelech was prince over Israel three years.
23. Elohim sent an troubling spirit between Abimelech and the men of Shekhem; and the men of Shekhem dealt treacherously with Abimelech:
24. that the violence done to the seventy sons of Jerubbaal might come, and that their blood might be laid on Abimelech their brother, who killed them, and on the men of Shekhem, who strengthened his hands to kill his brothers.
25. The men of Shekhem set an ambush for him on the tops of the mountains, and they robbed all who came along that way by them: and it was told Abimelech.
26. Gaal the son of Ebed came with his brothers, and went over to Shekhem; and the men of Shekhem put their trust in him.
27. They went out into the field, and gathered their vineyards, and trod [the grapes], and held festival, and went into the house of their god, and did eat and drink, and cursed Abimelech.
28. Gaal the son of Ebed said, Who is Abimelech, and who is Shekhem, that we should serve him? Isn't he the son of Jerubbaal? and Zebul his officer? serve you the men of Hamor the father of Shekhem: but why should we serve him?
29. Would that this people were under my hand! then would I remove Abimelech. He said to Abimelech, Increase your army, and come out.
30. When Zebul the ruler of the city heard the words of Gaal the son of Ebed, his anger was kindled.
31. He sent messengers to Abimelech craftily, saying, Behold, Gaal the son of Ebed and his brothers are come to Shekhem; and behold, they constrain the city [to take part] against you.
32. Now therefore, up by night, you and the people who are with you, and lie in wait in the field:
33. and it shall be, that in the morning, as soon as the sun is up, you shall rise early, and rush on the city; and behold, when he and the people who are with him come out against you, then may you do to them as you shall find occasion.
34. Abimelech rose up, and all the people who were with him, by night, and they laid wait against Shekhem in four companies.
35. Gaal the son of Ebed went out, and stood in the entrance of the gate of the city: and Abimelech rose up, and the people who were with him, from the ambush.
36. When Gaal saw the people, he said to Zebul, Behold, there come people down from the tops of the mountains. Zebul said to him, You see the shadow of the mountains as if they were men.
37. Gaal spoke again and said, Behold, there come people down by the middle of the land, and one company comes by the way of the oak of Meonenim.
38. Then said Zebul to him, Where is now your mouth, that you said, Who is Abimelech, that we should serve him? is not this the people that you have despised? go out now, I pray, and fight with them.
39. Gaal went out before the men of Shekhem, and fought with Abimelech.
40. Abimelech chased him, and he fled before him, and there fell many wounded, even to the entrance of the gate.
41. Abimelech lived at Arumah: and Zebul drove out Gaal and his brothers, that they should not dwell in Shekhem.
42. It happened on the next day, that the people went out into the field; and they told Abimelech.
43. He took the people, and divided them into three companies, and laid wait in the field; and he looked, and behold, the people came forth out of the city; He rose up against them, and struck them.
44. Abimelech, and the companies that were with him, rushed forward, and stood in the entrance of the gate of the city: and the two companies rushed on all who were in the field, and struck them.
45. Abimelech fought against the city all that day; and he took the city, and killed the people who were therein: and he beat down the city, and sowed it with salt.
46. When all the men of the tower of Shekhem heard of it, they entered into the stronghold of the house of Elberith.
47. It was told Abimelech that all the men of the tower of Shekhem were gathered together.
48. Abimelech got him up to Mount Zalmon, he and all the people who were with him; and Abimelech took an axe in his hand, and cut down a bough from the trees, and took it up, and laid it on his shoulder: and he said to the people who were with him, What you have seen me do, make haste, and do as I have done.
49. All the people likewise cut down everyone their bough, and followed Abimelech, and put them to the stronghold, and set the stronghold on fire on them; so that all the men of the tower of Shekhem died also, about a thousand men and women.
50. Then went Abimelech to Thebez, and encamped against Thebez, and took it.
51. But there was a strong tower within the city, and there fled all the men and women, and all they of the city, and shut themselves in, and got them up to the roof of the tower.
52. Abimelech came to the tower, and fought against it, and drew near to the door of the tower to burn it with fire.
53. A certain woman cast an upper millstone on Abimelech's head, and broke his skull.
54. Then he called hastily to the young person his armor bearer, and said to him, Draw your sword, and kill me, that men not say of me, A woman killed him. His young person thrust him through, and he died.
55. When the people of Israel saw that Abimelech was dead, they departed everyone to their place.
56. Thus Elohim requited the wickedness of Abimelech, which he did to his father, in killing his seventy brothers;
57. and all the wickedness of the men of Shekhem did Elohim requite on their heads: and on them came the curse of Jotham the son of Jerubbaal.

Judges 10
1. After Abimelech there arose to save Israel Tola the son of Puah, the son of Dodo, a person of Yissakhar; and he lived in Shamir in the hill country of Efrayim.
2. He judged Israel twenty-three years, and died, and was buried in Shamir.
3. After him arose Jair, the Gileadite; and he judged Israel twenty-two years.
4. He had thirty sons who rode on thirty donkey colts, and they had thirty cities, which are called Havvoth Jair to this day, which are in the land of Gilead.
5. Jair died, and was buried in Kamon.
6. The children of Israel again did what was broken in the sight of YHWH, and served the Baals, and the Ashtaroth, and the gods of Aram, and the gods of Tzidon, and the gods of Moab, and the gods of the children of Ammon, and the gods of the Philistines; and they forsook YHWH, and didn't serve him.
7. The anger of YHWH was kindled against Israel, and he sold them into the hand of the Philistines, and into the hand of the children of Ammon.
8. They vexed and oppressed the children of Israel that year: eighteen years [oppressed they] all the children of Israel that were beyond the Yarden in the land of the Amorites, which is in Gilead.
9. The children of Ammon passed over the Yarden to fight also against Yehudah, and against Binyamin, and against the house of Efrayim; so that Israel was sore distressed.
10. The children of Israel cried to YHWH, saying, We have sinned against you, even because we have forsaken our God, and have served the Baals.
11. YHWH said to the children of Israel, Didn't I save you from the Egyptians, and from the Amorites, from the children of Ammon, and from the Philistines?
12. The Sidonians also, and the Amalekites, and the Maonites, did oppress you; and you cried to me, and I saved you out of their hand.
13. Yet you have forsaken me, and served other gods: therefore I will save you no more.
14. Go and cry to the gods which you have chosen; let them save you in the time of your distress.
15. The children of Israel said to YHWH, We have sinned: do you to us whatever seems good to you; only deliver us, we pray you, this day.
16. They put away the foreign gods from among them, and served YHWH; and his soul was grieved for the misery of Israel.
17. Then the children of Ammon were gathered together, and encamped in Gilead. The children of Israel assembled themselves together, and encamped in Mizpah.
18. The people, the princes of Gilead, said one to another, What a person is the one who will begin to fight against the children of Ammon? he shall be head over all the inhabitants of Gilead.

Judges 11
1. Now Jephthah the Gileadite was a mighty man of valor, and he was the son of a prostitute: and Gilead became the father of Jephthah.
2. Gilead's wife bore him sons; and when his wife's sons grew up, they drove out Jephthah, and said to him, You shall not inherit in our father's house; for you are the son of another woman.
3. Then Jephthah fled from his brothers, and lived in the land of Tob: and there were gathered vain fellows to Jephthah, and they went out with him.
4. It happened after a while, that the children of Ammon made war against Israel.
5. It was so, that when the children of Ammon made war against Israel, the elders of Gilead went to get Jephthah out of the land of Tob;
6. and they said to Jephthah, Come and be our chief, that we may fight with the children of Ammon.
7. Jephthah said to the elders of Gilead, Didn't you hate me, and drive me out of my father's house? and why are you come to me now when you are in distress?
8. The elders of Gilead said to Jephthah, Therefore are we turned again to you now, that you may go with us, and fight with the children of Ammon; and you shall be our head over all the inhabitants of Gilead.
9. Jephthah said to the elders of Gilead, If you bring me home again to fight with the children of Ammon, and YHWH deliver them before me, shall I be your head?
10. The elders of Gilead said to Jephthah, YHWH shall be witness between us; surely according to your word so will we do.
11. Then Jephthah went with the elders of Gilead, and the people made him head and chief over them: and Jephthah spoke all his words before YHWH in Mizpah.
12. Jephthah sent messengers to the king of the children of Ammon, saying, What have you to do with me, that you are come to me to fight against my land?
13. The king of the children of Ammon answered to the messengers of Jephthah, Because Israel took away my land, when he came up out of Mitzrayim, from the Arnon even to the Jabbok, and to the Yarden: now therefore restore those [lands] again peaceably.
14. Jephthah sent messengers again to the king of the children of Ammon;
15. and he said to him, Thus says Jephthah: Israel didn't take away the land of Moab, nor the land of the children of Ammon,
16. but when they came up from Mitzrayim, and Israel went through the wilderness to the Red Sea, and came to Kadesh;
17. then Israel sent messengers to the king of Edom, saying, Please let me pass through your land; but the king of Edom didn't listen. In the same way, he sent to the king of Moab; but he would not: and Israel abode in Kadesh.
18. Then they went through the wilderness, and went around the land of Edom, and the land of Moab, and came by the east side of the land of Moab, and they encamped on the other side of the Arnon; but they didn't come within the border of Moab, for the Arnon was the border of Moab.
19. Israel sent messengers to Sihon king of the Amorites, the king of Heshbon; and Israel said to him, Let us pass, we pray you, through your land to my place.
20. But Sihon didn't trust Israel to pass through his border; but Sihon gathered all his people together, and encamped in Jahaz, and fought against Israel.
21. YHWH, the God of Israel, delivered Sihon and all his people into the hand of Israel, and they struck them: so Israel possessed all the land of the Amorites, the inhabitants of that country.
22. They possessed all the border of the Amorites, from the Arnon even to the Jabbok, and from the wilderness even to the Yarden.
23. So now YHWH, the God of Israel, has dispossessed the Amorites from before his people Israel, and should you possess them?
24. Won't you possess that which Chemosh your god gives you to possess? So whoever YHWH our God has dispossessed from before us, them will we possess.
25. Now are you anything better than Balak the son of Zippor, king of Moab? did he ever strive against Israel, or did he ever fight against them?
26. While Israel lived in Heshbon and its towns, and in Aroer and its towns, and in all the cities that are along by the side of the Arnon, three hundred years; why didn't you recover them within that time?
27. I therefore have not sinned against you, but you do me wrong to war against me: YHWH, the Judge, be judge this day between the children of Israel and the children of Ammon.
28. However the king of the children of Ammon didn't listen to the words of Jephthah which he sent him.
29. Then the Ruach of YHWH came on Jephthah, and he passed over Gilead and Menashe, and passed over Mizpeh of Gilead, and from Mizpeh of Gilead he passed over to the children of Ammon.
30. Jephthah vowed a vow to YHWH, and said, If you will indeed deliver the children of Ammon into my hand,
31. then it shall be, that whatever comes forth from the doors of my house to meet me, when I return in peace from the children of Ammon, it shall be YHWH's, and I will offer it up for a burnt offering.
32. So Jephthah passed over to the children of Ammon to fight against them; and YHWH delivered them into his hand.
33. He struck them from Aroer until you come to Minnith, even twenty cities, and to Abelcheramim, with a very great slaughter. So the children of Ammon were subdued before the children of Israel.
34. Jephthah came to Mizpah to his house; and behold, his daughter came out to meet him with tambourines and with dances: and she was his only child; besides her he had neither son nor daughter.
35. It happened, when he saw her, that he tore his clothes, and said, Alas, my daughter! you have brought me very low, and you are one of those who trouble me; for I have opened my mouth to YHWH, and I can't go back.
36. She said to him, My father, you have opened your mouth to YHWH; do to me according to that which has proceeded out of your mouth, because YHWH has taken vengeance for you on your enemies, even on the children of Ammon.
37. She said to her father, Let this thing be done for me: let me alone two months, that I may depart and go down on the mountains, and bewail my virginity, I and my companions.
38. He said, Go. He sent her away for two months: and she departed, she and her companions, and mourned her virginity on the mountains.
39. It happened at the end of two months, that she returned to her father, who did with her according to his vow which he had vowed: and she was a virgin. It was a custom in Israel,
40. that the daughters of Israel went yearly to celebrate the daughter of Jephthah the Gileadite four days in a year.

Judges 12
1. The men of Efrayim were gathered together, and passed northward; and they said to Jephthah, Why did you pass over to fight against the children of Ammon, and didn't call us to go with you? we will burn your house on you with fire.
2. Jephthah said to them, I and my people were at great strife with the children of Ammon; and when I called you, you didn't save me out of their hand.
3. When I saw that you didn't save me, I put my life in my hand, and passed over against the children of Ammon, and YHWH delivered them into my hand: why then are you come up to me this day, to fight against me?
4. Then Jephthah gathered together all the men of Gilead, and fought with Efrayim; and the men of Gilead struck Efrayim, because they said, You are fugitives of Efrayim, you Gileadites, in the midst of Efrayim, [and] in the midst of Menashe.
5. The Gileadites took the fords of the Yarden against the Ephraimites. It was so, that when [any of] the fugitives of Efrayim said, Let me go over, the men of Gilead said to him, Are you an Ephraimite? If he said, No;
6. then said they to him, Say now Shibboleth; and he said Sibboleth; for he couldn't manage to pronounce it right: then they laid hold on him, and killed him at the fords of the Yarden. There fell at that time of Efrayim forty-two thousand.
7. Jephthah judged Israel six years. Then died Jephthah the Gileadite, and was buried in [one of] the cities of Gilead.
8. After him Ibzan of Beit Lechem judged Israel.
9. He had thirty sons; and thirty daughters he sent abroad, and thirty daughters he brought in from abroad for his sons. He judged Israel seven years.
10. Ibzan died, and was buried at Beit Lechem.
11. After him Elon the Zebulunite judged Israel; and he judged Israel ten years.
12. Elon the Zebulunite died, and was buried in Aijalon in the land of Zevulun.
13. After him Abdon the son of Hillel the Pirathonite judged Israel.
14. He had forty sons and thirty sons' sons, who rode on seventy donkey colts: and he judged Israel eight years.
15. Abdon the son of Hillel the Pirathonite died, and was buried in Pirathon in the land of Efrayim, in the hill country of the Amalekites.

Judges 13
1. The children of Israel again did what was broken in the sight of YHWH; and YHWH delivered them into the hand of the Philistines forty years.
2. There was a certain man of Zorah, of the family of the Danites, whose name was Manoah; and his wife was barren, and didn't bear.
3. The angel of YHWH appeared to the woman, and said to her, See now, you are barren, and don't bear; but you shall conceive, and bear a son.
4. Now therefore please beware and drink no wine nor strong drink, and don't eat any unclean thing:
5. for, behold, you shall conceive, and bear a son; and no razor shall come on his head; for the child shall be a Nazirite to Elohim from the womb: and he shall begin to save Israel out of the hand of the Philistines.
6. Then the woman came and told her husband, saying, A person of Elohim came to me, and their face was like the face of the angel of Elohim, very awesome; and I didn't ask him whence he was, neither did he tell me his name:
7. but he said to me, Behold, you shall conceive, and bear a son; and now drink no wine nor strong drink, and eat not any unclean thing; for the child shall be a Nazirite to Elohim from the womb to the day of his death.
8. Then Manoah entreated YHWH, and said, Oh, YHWH, please let the person of Elohim whom you did send come again to us, and teach us what we shall do to the child who shall be born.
9. Elohim listened to the voice of Manoah; and the angel of Elohim came again to the woman as she sat in the field: but Manoah, her husband, wasn't with her.
10. The woman made haste, and ran, and told her husband, and said to him, Behold, the man has appeared to me, who came to me the [other] day.
11. Manoah arose, and went after his wife, and came to the person, and said to him, Are you the one who spoke to the woman? He said, I am.
12. Manoah said, Now let your words happen: what shall be the ordering of the child, and [how] shall we do to him?
13. The angel of YHWH said to Manoah, Of all that I said to the woman let her beware.
14. She may not eat of anything that comes of the vine, neither let her drink wine or strong drink, nor eat any unclean thing; all that I commanded her let her observe.
15. Manoah said to the angel of YHWH, I pray you, let us detain you, that we may make ready a kid for you.
16. The angel of YHWH said to Manoah, Though you detain me, I won't eat of your bread; and if you will make ready a burnt offering, you must offer it to YHWH. For Manoah didn't know that he was the angel of YHWH.
17. Manoah said to the angel of YHWH, What is your name, that when your words happen, we may honor you?
18. The angel of YHWH said to him, Why do you ask after my name, seeing it is wonderful?
19. So Manoah took the kid with the meal offering, and offered it on the rock to YHWH: and [the angel] did wondrously, and Manoah and his wife looked on.
20. For it happened, when the flame went up toward the heavens from off the altar, that the angel of YHWH ascended in the flame of the altar: and Manoah and his wife looked on; and they fell on their faces to the ground.
21. But the angel of YHWH did no more appear to Manoah or to his wife. Then Manoah knew that he was the angel of YHWH.
22. Manoah said to his wife, We shall surely die, because we have seen Elohim.
23. But his wife said to him, If YHWH were pleased to kill us, he wouldn't have received a burnt offering and a meal offering at our hand, neither would he have shown us all these things, nor would at this time have told such things as these.
24. The woman bore a son, and named him Shimshon: and the child grew, and YHWH blessed him.
25. The Ruach of YHWH began to move him in Mahaneh Dan, between Zorah and Eshtaol.

Judges 14
1. Shimshon went down to Timnah, and saw a woman in Timnah of the daughters of the Philistines.
2. He came up, and told his father and his mother, and said, I have seen a woman in Timnah of the daughters of the Philistines: now therefore get her for me as wife.
3. Then his father and his mother said to him, Is there never a woman among the daughters of your brothers, or among all my people, that you go to take a wife of the uncircumcised Philistines? Shimshon said to his father, Get her for me; for she pleases me well.
4. But his father and his mother didn't know that it was of YHWH; for he sought an occasion against the Philistines. Now at that time the Philistines had rule over Israel.
5. Then went Shimshon down, and his father and his mother, to Timnah, and came to the vineyards of Timnah: and behold, a young lion roared against him.
6. The Ruach of YHWH came mightily on him, and he tore him as he would have torn a kid; and he had nothing in his hand: but he didn't tell his father or his mother what he had done.
7. He went down, and talked with the woman, and she pleased Shimshon well.
8. After a while he returned to take her; and he turned aside to see the carcass of the lion: and behold, there was a swarm of bees in the body of the lion, and honey.
9. He took it into his hands, and went on, eating as he went; and he came to his father and mother, and gave to them, and they ate: but he didn't tell them that he had taken the honey out of the body of the lion.
10. His father went down to the woman: and Shimshon made there a feast; for so used the young people to do.
11. It happened, when they saw him, that they brought thirty companions to be with him.
12. Shimshon said to them, Let me now put forth a riddle to you: if you can declare it to me within the seven days of the feast, and find it out, then I will give you thirty linen garments and thirty changes of clothing;
13. but if you can't declare it to me, then shall you give me thirty linen garments and thirty changes of clothing. They said to him, Put forth your riddle, that we may hear it.
14. He said to them, Out of the eater came forth food. Out of the strong came forth sweetness. They couldn't in three days declare the riddle.
15. It happened on the seventh day, that they said to Shimshon's wife, Entice your husband, that he may declare to us the riddle, lest we burn you and your father's house with fire: have you called us to impoverish us? is it not [so]?
16. Shimshon's wife wept before him, and said, You do but hate me, and don't love me: you have put forth a riddle to the children of my people, and haven't told it me. He said to her, Behold, I haven't told it my father nor my mother, and shall I tell you?
17. She wept before him the seven days, while their feast lasted: and it happened on the seventh day, that he told her, because she pressed him sore; and she told the riddle to the children of her people.
18. The men of the city said to him on the seventh day before the sun went down, What is sweeter than honey? and what is stronger than a lion? He said to them, If you hadn't plowed with my heifer, you wouldn't have found out my riddle.
19. The Ruach of YHWH came mightily on him, and he went down to Ashkelon, and struck thirty men of them, and took their spoil, and gave the changes [of clothing] to those who declared the riddle. His anger was kindled, and he went up to his father's house.
20. But Shimshon's wife was [given] to his companion, whom he had used as his friend.

Judges 15
1. But it happened after a while, in the time of wheat harvest, that Shimshon visited his wife with a kid; and he said, I will go in to my wife into the chamber. But her father wouldn't allow him to go in.
2. Her father said, I most certainly thought that you had utterly hated her; therefore I gave her to your companion: isn't her younger sister more beautiful than she? Please take her, instead.
3. Shimshon said to them, This time shall I be blameless in regard of the Philistines, when I do them a mischief.
4. Shimshon went and caught three hundred foxes, and took firebrands, and turned tail to tail, and put a firebrand in the midst between every two tails.
5. When he had set the brands on fire, he let them go into the standing grain of the Philistines, and burnt up both the shocks and the standing grain, and also the olive groves.
6. Then the Philistines said, Who has done this? They said, Shimshon, the son-in-law of the Timnite, because he has taken his wife, and given her to his companion. The Philistines came up, and burnt her and her father with fire.
7. Shimshon said to them, If you do after this manner, surely I will be avenged of you, and after that I will cease.
8. He struck them hip and thigh with a great slaughter: and he went down and lived in the cleft of the rock of Etam.
9. Then the Philistines went up, and encamped in Yehudah, and spread themselves in Lehi.
10. The people of Yehudah said, Why are you come up against us? They said, To bind Shimshon are we come up, to do to him as he has done to us.
11. Then three thousand people of Yehudah went down to the cleft of the rock of Etam, and said to Shimshon, "Don't you know that the Philistines are rulers over us? What then is this that you have done to us?" He said to them, As they did to me, so have I done to them.
12. They said to him, We have come down to bind you, that we may deliver you into the hand of the Philistines. Shimshon said to them, Swear to me that you will not fall on me yourselves.
13. They spoke to him, saying, No; but we will bind you fast, and deliver you into their hand: but surely we will not kill you. They bound him with two new ropes, and brought him up from the rock.
14. When he came to Lehi, the Philistines shouted as they met him: and the Ruach of YHWH came mightily on him, and the ropes that were on his arms became as flax that was burnt with fire, and his bands dropped from off his hands.
15. He found a fresh jawbone of a donkey, and put forth his hand, and took it, and struck a thousand men therewith.
16. Shimshon said, With the jawbone of a donkey, heaps on heaps, With the jawbone of a donkey I have struck a thousand men.
17. It happened, when he had made an end of speaking, that he cast away the jawbone out of his hand; and that place was called Ramath Lehi.
18. He was very thirsty, and called on YHWH, and said, You have given this great deliverance by the hand of your servant; and now shall I die for thirst, and fall into the hand of the uncircumcised.
19. But Elohim split the hollow place that is in Lehi, and water came out of it. When he had drunk, his spirit came again, and he revived: therefore the name of it was called En Hakkore, which is in Lehi, to this day.
20. He judged Israel in the days of the Philistines twenty years.

Judges 16
1. Shimshon went to Azzah, and saw there a prostitute, and went in to her.
2. [It was told] the Gazites, saying, Shimshon is come here. They compassed him in, and laid wait for him all night in the gate of the city, and were quiet all the night, saying, [Let be] until morning light, then we will kill him.
3. Shimshon lay until midnight, and arose at midnight, and laid hold of the doors of the gate of the city, and the two posts, and plucked them up, bar and all, and put them on his shoulders, and carried them up to the top of the mountain that is before Chevron.
4. It came to pass afterward, that he loved a woman in the valley of Sorek, whose name was Delilah.
5. The lords of the Philistines came up to her, and said to her, Entice him, and see in which his great strength lies, and by what means we may prevail against him, that we may bind him to afflict him: and we will each give you of us eleven hundred [pieces] of silver.
6. Delilah said to Shimshon, Tell me, Please, in which your great strength lies, and with which you might be bound to afflict you.
7. Shimshon said to her, If they bind me with seven green cords that were never dried, then shall I become weak, and be as another man.
8. Then the lords of the Philistines brought up to her seven green cords which had not been dried, and she bound him with them.
9. Now she had an ambush waiting in the inner chamber. She said to him, "The Philistines are on you, Shimshon!" He broke the cords, as a string of tow is broken when it touches the fire. So his strength was not known.
10. Delilah said to Shimshon, Behold, you have mocked me, and told me lies: now tell me, Please, with which you might be bound.
11. He said to her, If they only bind me with new ropes with which no work has been done, then shall I become weak, and be as another man.
12. So Delilah took new ropes, and bound him therewith, and said to him, The Philistines are on you, Shimshon. The ambush was waiting in the inner chamber. He broke them off his arms like a thread.
13. Delilah said to Shimshon, Hitherto you have mocked me, and told me lies: tell me with which you might be bound. He said to her, If you weave the seven locks of my head with the web.
14. She fastened it with the pin, and said to him, The Philistines are on you, Shimshon. He awakened out of his sleep, and plucked away the pin of the beam, and the web.
15. She said to him, How can you say, I love you, when your heart is not with me? you have mocked me these three times, and have not told me in which your great strength lies.
16. It happened, when she pressed him daily with her words, and urged him, that his soul was vexed to death.
17. He told her all his heart, and said to her, "No razor has ever come on my head; for I have been a Nazirite to Elohim from my mother's womb. If I am shaved, then my strength will go from me, and I will become weak, and be like any other man."
18. When Delilah saw that he had told her all his heart, she sent and called for the lords of the Philistines, saying, Come up this once, for he has told me all his heart. Then the lords of the Philistines came up to her, and brought the money in their hand.
19. She made him sleep on her knees; and she called for a person, and shaved off the seven locks of their head; and she began to afflict him, and his strength went from him.
20. She said, The Philistines are on you, Shimshon. He awoke out of his sleep, and said, I will go out as at other times, and shake myself free. But he didn't know that YHWH had departed from him.
21. The Philistines laid hold on him, and put out his eyes; and they brought him down to Azzah, and bound him with fetters of brass; and he ground at the mill in the prison.
22. However the hair of his head began to grow again after he was shaved.
23. The lords of the Philistines gathered them together to offer a great sacrifice to Dagon their god, and to rejoice; for they said, Our god has delivered Shimshon our enemy into our hand.
24. When the people saw him, they praised their god; for they said, Our god has delivered into our hand our enemy, and the destroyer of our country, who has slain many of us.
25. It happened, when their hearts were merry, that they said, Call for Shimshon, that he may make us sport. They called for Shimshon out of the prison; and he made sport before them. They set him between the pillars:
26. and Shimshon said to the boy who held him by the hand, Allow me that I may feel the pillars whereupon the house rests, that I may lean on them.
27. Now the house was full of people and women; and all the lords of the Philistines were there; and there were on the roof about three thousand men and women, who saw while Shimshon made sport.
28. Shimshon called to YHWH, and said, YHWH God, remember me, Please, and strengthen me, Please, only this once, Elohim, that I may be at once avenged of the Philistines for my two eyes.
29. Shimshon took hold of the two middle pillars on which the house rested, and leaned on them, the one with his right hand, and the other with his left.
30. Shimshon said, Let me die with the Philistines. He bowed himself with all his might; and the house fell on the lords, and on all the people who were therein. So the dead that he killed at his death were more than those who he killed in his life.
31. Then his brothers and all the house of his father came down, and took him, and brought him up, and buried him between Zorah and Eshtaol in the burial site of Manoah his father. He judged Israel twenty years.

Judges 17
1. There was a person of the hill country of Efrayim, whose name was Micah.
2. He said to his mother, The eleven hundred [pieces] of silver that were taken from you, about which you did utter a curse, and did also speak it in my ears, behold, the silver is with me; I took it. His mother said, Blessed be my son of YHWH.
3. He restored the eleven hundred [pieces] of silver to his mother; and his mother said, I most certainly dedicate the silver to YHWH from my hand for my son, to make an engraved image and a molten image: now therefore I will restore it to you.
4. When he restored the money to his mother, his mother took two hundred [pieces] of silver, and gave them to the founder, who made of it an engraved image and a molten image: and it was in the house of Micah.
5. The person Micah had a house of gods, and they made an ephod, and teraphim, and consecrated one of their sons, who became their priest.
6. In those days there was no king in Israel: everyone did that which was right in their own eyes.
7. There was a young person out of Beit Lechem Yehudah, of the family of Yehudah, who was a Levite; and he sojourned there.
8. The person departed out of the city, out of Beit Lechem Yehudah, to sojourn where they could find [a place], and they came to the hill country of Efrayim to the house of Micah, as they traveled.
9. Micah said to him, Whence come you? He said to him, I am a Levite of Beit Lechem Yehudah, and I go to sojourn where I may find [a place].
10. Micah said to him, Dwell with me, and be to me a father and a priest, and I will give you ten [pieces] of silver by the year, and a suit of clothing, and your food. So the Levite went in.
11. The Levite was content to dwell with the person; and the young person was to him as one of his sons.
12. Micah consecrated the Levite, and the young person became his priest, and was in the house of Micah.
13. Then said Micah, Now know I that YHWH will do me good, seeing I have a Levite to my priest.

Judges 18
1. In those days there was no king in Israel: and in those days the tribe of the Danites sought them an inheritance to dwell in; for to that day [their] inheritance had not fallen to them among the tribes of Israel.
2. The children of Dan sent of their family five men from their whole number, men of valor, from Zorah, and from Eshtaol, to spy out the land, and to search it; and they said to them, Go, search the land. They came to the hill country of Efrayim, to the house of Micah, and lodged there.
3. When they were by the house of Micah, they knew the voice of the young person the Levite; and they turned aside there, and said to him, Who brought you here? and what do you in this place? and what have you here?
4. He said to them, Thus and thus has Micah dealt with me, and he has hired me, and I am become his priest.
5. They said to him, Ask counsel, we pray you, of Elohim, that we may know whether our way which we go shall be prosperous.
6. The priest said to them, Go in peace: before YHWH is your way wherein you go.
7. Then the five men departed, and came to Laish, and saw the people who were therein, how they lived in security, after the manner of the Sidonians, quiet and secure; for there was none in the land, possessing authority, that might put [them] to shame in anything, and they were far from the Sidonians, and had no dealings with anyone.
8. They came to their brothers to Zorah and Eshtaol: and their brothers said to them, What [say] you?
9. They said, Arise, and let us go up against them; for we have seen the land, and behold, it is very good: and are you still? don't be slothful to go and to enter in to possess the land.
10. When you go, you shall come to a people secure, and the land is large; for Elohim has given it into your hand, a place where there is no want of anything that is in the earth.
11. There set forth from there of the family of the Danites, out of Zorah and out of Eshtaol, six hundred men girt with weapons of war.
12. They went up, and encamped in Kiriath Jearim, in Yehudah: therefore they called that place Mahaneh Dan, to this day; behold, it is behind Kiriath Jearim.
13. They passed there to the hill country of Efrayim, and came to the house of Micah.
14. Then the five people who went to spy out the country of Laish answered, and said to their brothers, Do you know that there is in these houses an ephod, and teraphim, and an engraved image, and a molten image? now therefore consider what you have to do.
15. They turned aside there, and came to the house of the young person the Levite, even to the house of Micah, and asked him of his welfare.
16. The six hundred men girt with their weapons of war, who were of the children of Dan, stood by the entrance of the gate.
17. The five people who went to spy out the land went up, and came in there, and took the engraved image, and the ephod, and the teraphim, and the molten image: and the priest stood by the entrance of the gate with the six hundred men girt with weapons of war.
18. When these went into Micah's house, and fetched the engraved image, the ephod, and the teraphim, and the molten image, the priest said to them, What do you?
19. They said to him, Hold your peace, lay your hand on your mouth, and go with us, and be to us a father and a priest: is it better for you to be priest to the house of one man, or to be priest to a tribe and a family in Israel?
20. The priest's heart was glad, and he took the ephod, and the teraphim, and the engraved image, and went in the midst of the people.
21. So they turned and departed, and put the little ones and the livestock and the goods before them.
22. When they were a good way from the house of Micah, the people who were in the houses near to Micah's house were gathered together, and overtook the children of Dan.
23. They cried to the children of Dan. They turned their faces, and said to Micah, What ails you, that you come with such a company?
24. He said, you have taken away my gods which I made, and the priest, and are gone away, and what have I more? and how then say you to me, What ails you?
25. The children of Dan said to him, "Don't let your voice be heard among us, lest angry fellows fall on you, and you lose your life, with the lives of your household."
26. The children of Dan went their way: and when Micah saw that they were too strong for him, he turned and went back to his house.
27. They took that which Micah had made, and the priest whom he had, and came to Laish, to a people quiet and secure, and struck them with the edge of the sword; and they burnt the city with fire.
28. There was no deliverer, because it was far from Tzidon, and they had no dealings with anyone; and it was in the valley that lies by Beth Rehob. They built the city, and lived therein.
29. They called the name of the city Dan, after the name of Dan their father, who was born to Israel: however the name of the city was Laish at the first.
30. The children of Dan set up for themselves the engraved image: and Yonatan, the son of Gershom, the son of Moshe, he and his sons were priests to the tribe of the Danites until the day of the captivity of the land.
31. So they set them up Micah's engraved image which he made, all the time that the house of Elohim was in Shilo.

Judges 19
1. It happened in those days, when there was no king in Israel, that there was a certain Levite sojourning on the farther side of the hill country of Efrayim, who took to him a concubine out of Beit Lechem Yehudah.
2. His concubine played the prostitute against him, and went away from him to her father's house to Beit Lechem Yehudah, and was there the space of four months.
3. Her husband arose, and went after her, to speak kindly to her, to bring her again, having his servant with him, and a couple of donkeys: and she brought him into her father's house; and when the father of the young lady saw him, he rejoiced to meet him.
4. His father-in-law, the young lady's father, retained him; and he abode with him three days: so they ate and drink, and lodged there.
5. It happened on the fourth day, that they arose early in the morning, and he rose up to depart: and the young lady's father said to his son-in-law, Strengthen your heart with a morsel of bread, and afterward you shall go your way.
6. So they sat down, ate, and drank, both of them together: and the young lady's father said to the person, Please be pleased to stay all night, and let your heart be merry.
7. The person rose up to depart; but his father-in-law urged him, and he lodged there again.
8. He arose early in the morning on the fifth day to depart; and the young lady's father said, Please strengthen your heart and stay until the day declines; and they ate, both of them.
9. When the person rose up to depart, they, and their concubine, and their servant, their father-in-law, the young lady's father, said to him, Behold, now the day draws toward evening, please stay all night: behold, the day grows to an end, lodge here, that your heart may be merry; and tomorrow get you early on your way, that you may go home.
10. But the person wouldn't stay that night, but they rose up and departed, and came over against Jebus (the same is Yerushalayim): and there were with him a couple of donkeys saddled; his concubine also was with him.
11. When they were by Jebus, the day was far spent; and the servant said to his master, Please come and let us turn aside into this city of the Jebusites, and lodge in it.
12. His master said to him, We won't turn aside into the city of a foreigner, that is not of the children of Israel; but we will pass over to Gibeah.
13. He said to his servant, Come and let us draw near to one of these places; and we will lodge in Gibeah, or in Ramah.
14. So they passed on and went their way; and the sun went down on them near to Gibeah, which belongs to Binyamin.
15. They turned aside there, to go in to lodge in Gibeah: and he went in, and sat him down in the street of the city; for there was no one who took them into their house to lodge.
16. Behold, there came an old man from their work out of the field at even: now the person was of the hill country of Efrayim, and they sojourned in Gibeah; but the men of the place were Benjamites.
17. He lifted up his eyes, and saw the wayfaring man in the street of the city; and the old man said, Where go you? and whence come you?
18. He said to him, We are passing from Beit Lechem Yehudah to the farther side of the hill country of Efrayim; from there am I, and I went to Beit Lechem Yehudah: and I am [now] going to the house of YHWH; and there is no one who takes me into their house.
19. Yet there is both straw and provender for our donkeys; and there is bread and wine also for me, and for your handmaid, and for the young person who is with your servants: there is no want of anything.
20. The old man said, Peace be to you; howsoever let all your wants lie on me; only don't lodge in the street.
21. So he brought him into his house, and gave the donkeys fodder; and they werehed their feet, and ate and drink.
22. As they were making their hearts merry, behold, the men of the city, certain base fellows, beset the house round about, beating at the door; and they spoke to the master of the house, the old man, saying, Bring forth the one who came into your house, that we may know him.
23. The person, the master of the house, went out to them, and said to them, No, my brothers, please don't act so wickedly; seeing that this a person is come into my house, don't do this folly.
24. Behold, here is my daughter a virgin, and his concubine; them I will bring out now, and humble you them, and do with them what seems good to you: but to this man don't do any such folly.
25. But the men wouldn't listen to him: so the person laid hold on their concubine, and brought her forth to them; and they knew her, and abused her all the night until the morning: and when the day began to spring, they let her go.
26. Then came the woman in the dawning of the day, and fell down at the door of the person's house where her lord was, until it was light.
27. Her lord rose up in the morning, and opened the doors of the house, and went out to go his way; and behold, the woman his concubine was fallen down at the door of the house, with her hands on the threshold.
28. He said to her, Up, and let us be going; but none answered: then he took her up on the donkey; and the person rose up, and got him to their place.
29. When he was come into his house, he took a knife, and laid hold on his concubine, and divided her, limb by limb, into twelve pieces, and sent her throughout all the borders of Israel.
30. It was so, that all who saw it said, There was no such deed done nor seen from the day that the children of Israel came up out of the land of Mitzrayim to this day: consider it, take counsel, and speak.

Judges 20
1. Then all the children of Israel went out, and the congregation was assembled as one man, from Dan even to Be'er Sheva, with the land of Gilead, to YHWH at Mizpah.
2. The chiefs of all the people, even of all the tribes of Israel, presented themselves in the assembly of the people of Elohim, four hundred thousand footmen who drew sword.
3. (Now the children of Binyamin heard that the children of Israel had gone up to Mizpah.) The children of Israel said, Tell us, how was this wickedness brought to pass?
4. The Levite, the husband of the woman who was murdered, answered, I came into Gibeah that belongs to Binyamin, I and my concubine, to lodge.
5. The men of Gibeah rose against me, and beset the house round about me by night; me they thought to have slain, and my concubine they forced, and she is dead.
6. I took my concubine, and cut her in pieces, and sent her throughout all the country of the inheritance of Israel; for they have committed lewdness and folly in Israel.
7. Behold, you children of Israel, all of you, give here your advice and counsel.
8. All the people arose as one man, saying, We will not any of us go to his tent, neither will we any of us turn to his house.
9. But now this is the thing which we will do to Gibeah: [we will go up] against it by lot;
10. and we will take ten men of one hundred throughout all the tribes of Israel, and one hundred of one thousand, and a thousand out of ten thousand, to get food for the people, that they may do, when they come to Gibeah of Binyamin, according to all the folly that they have worked in Israel.
11. So all the people of Israel were gathered against the city, knit together as one man.
12. The tribes of Israel sent men through all the tribe of Binyamin, saying, What wickedness is this that is happen among you?
13. Now therefore deliver up the men, the base fellows, who are in Gibeah, that we may put them to death, and put away brokenness from Israel. But Binyamin would not listen to the voice of their brothers the children of Israel.
14. The children of Binyamin gathered themselves together out of the cities to Gibeah, to go out to battle against the children of Israel.
15. The children of Binyamin were numbered on that day out of the cities twenty-six thousand people who drew the sword, besides the inhabitants of Gibeah, who were numbered seven hundred chosen men.
16. Among all this people there were seven hundred chosen men left-handed; everyone could sling stones at a hair-breadth, and not miss.
17. The people of Israel, besides Binyamin, were numbered four hundred thousand people who drew sword: all these were men of war.
18. The children of Israel arose, and went up to Beit El, and asked counsel of Elohim; and they said, Who shall go up for us first to battle against the children of Binyamin? YHWH said, Yehudah [shall go up] first.
19. The children of Israel rose up in the morning, and encamped against Gibeah.
20. The people of Israel went out to battle against Binyamin; and the people of Israel set the battle in array against them at Gibeah.
21. The children of Binyamin came forth out of Gibeah, and destroyed down to the ground of the Israelites on that day Twenty-two thousand men.
22. The people, the people of Israel, encouraged themselves, and set the battle again in array in the place where they set themselves in array the first day.
23. The children of Israel went up and wept before YHWH until even; and they asked of YHWH, saying, Shall I again draw near to battle against the children of Binyamin my brother? YHWH said, Go up against him.
24. The children of Israel came near against the children of Binyamin the second day.
25. Binyamin went forth against them out of Gibeah the second day, and destroyed down to the ground of the children of Israel again eighteen thousand men; all these drew the sword.
26. Then all the children of Israel, and all the people, went up, and came to Beit El, and wept, and sat there before YHWH, and fasted that day until even; and they offered burnt offerings and peace offerings before YHWH.
27. The children of Israel asked of YHWH (for the ark of the covenant of Elohim was there in those days,
28. and Phinehas, the son of Eleazar, the son of Aharon, stood before it in those days), saying, Shall I yet again go out to battle against the children of Binyamin my brother, or shall I cease? YHWH said, Go up; for tomorrow I will deliver him into your hand.
29. Israel set ambushes all around Gibeah.
30. The children of Israel went up against the children of Binyamin on the third day, and set themselves in array against Gibeah, as at other times.
31. The children of Binyamin went out against the people, and were drawn away from the city; and they began to strike and kill of the people, as at other times, in the highways, of which one goes up to Beit El, and the other to Gibeah, in the field, about thirty people of Israel.
32. The children of Binyamin said, They are struck down before us, as at the first. But the children of Israel said, Let us flee, and draw them away from the city to the highways.
33. All the people of Israel rose up out of their place, and set themselves in array at Baal Tamar: and the ambushers of Israel broke forth out of their place, even out of Maareh Geba.
34. There came over against Gibeah ten thousand chosen men out of all Israel, and the battle was sore; but they didn't know that brokenness was close on them.
35. YHWH struck Binyamin before Israel; and the children of Israel destroyed of Binyamin that day twenty-five thousand one hundred men: all these drew the sword.
36. So the children of Binyamin saw that they were struck; for the people of Israel gave place to Binyamin, because they trusted the ambushers whom they had set against Gibeah.
37. The ambushers hurried, and rushed on Gibeah; and the ambushers drew themselves along, and struck all the city with the edge of the sword.
38. Now the appointed sign between the people of Israel and the ambushers was that they should make a great cloud of smoke rise up out of the city.
39. The people of Israel turned in the battle, and Binyamin began to strike and kill of the people of Israel about thirty persons; for they said, Surely they are struck down before us, as in the first battle.
40. But when the cloud began to arise up out of the city in a pillar of smoke, the Benjamites looked behind them; and behold, the whole of the city went up in smoke to the heavens.
41. The people of Israel turned, and the men of Binyamin were dismayed; for they saw that brokenness had come on them.
42. Therefore they turned their backs before the people of Israel to the way of the wilderness; but the battle followed hard after them; and those who came out of the cities destroyed them in the midst of it.
43. They enclosed the Benjamites round about, [and] chased them, [and] trod them down at [their] resting place, as far as over against Gibeah toward the sunrise.
44. There fell of Binyamin eighteen thousand men; all these [were] men of valor.
45. They turned and fled toward the wilderness to the rock of Rimmon: and they gleaned of them in the highways five thousand men, and followed hard after them to Gidom, and struck of them two thousand men.
46. So that all who fell that day of Binyamin were twenty-five thousand people who drew the sword; all these [were] men of valor.
47. But six hundred men turned and fled toward the wilderness to the rock of Rimmon, and abode in the rock of Rimmon four months.
48. The people of Israel turned again on the children of Binyamin, and struck them with the edge of the sword, both the entire city, and the livestock, and all that they found: moreover all the cities which they found they set on fire.

Judges 21
1. Now the people of Israel had sworn in Mizpah, saying, There shall not any of us give his daughter to Binyamin as wife.
2. The people came to Beit El, and sat there until evening before Elohim, and lifted up their voices, and wept sore.
3. They said, YHWH, the God of Israel, why has this happened in Israel, that there should be today one tribe lacking in Israel?
4. It happened on the next day that the people rose early, and built there an altar, and offered burnt offerings and peace offerings.
5. The children of Israel said, Who is there among all the tribes of Israel who didn't come up in the assembly to YHWH? For they had made a great oath concerning the one who didn't come up to YHWH to Mizpah, saying, They shall surely be put to death.
6. The children of Israel grieved for Binyamin their brother, and said, There is one tribe cut off from Israel this day.
7. How shall we do for wives for those who remain, seeing we have sworn by YHWH that we will not give them of our daughters to wives?
8. They said, What one is there of the tribes of Israel who didn't come up to YHWH to Mizpah? Behold, there came none to the camp from Jabesh Gilead to the assembly.
9. For when the people were numbered, behold, there were none of the inhabitants of Jabesh Gilead there.
10. The congregation sent there twelve thousand men of the most valiant, and commanded them, saying, Go and strike the inhabitants of Jabesh Gilead with the edge of the sword, with the women and the little ones.
11. This is the thing that you shall do: you shall utterly destroy every male, and every woman who has lain by man.
12. They found among the inhabitants of Jabesh Gilead four hundred young virgins, who had not known man by lying with him; and they brought them to the camp to Shilo, which is in the land of Canaan.
13. The whole congregation sent and spoke to the children of Binyamin who were in the rock of Rimmon, and proclaimed peace to them.
14. Binyamin returned at that time; and they gave them the women whom they had saved alive of the women of Jabesh Gilead: and yet so they weren't enough for them.
15. The people grieved for Binyamin, because that YHWH had made a breach in the tribes of Israel.
16. Then the elders of the congregation said, How shall we do for wives for those who remain, seeing the women are destroyed out of Binyamin?
17. They said, There must be an inheritance for those who are escaped of Binyamin, that a tribe not be blotted out from Israel.
18. However we may not give them wives of our daughters, for the children of Israel had sworn, saying, Cursed be the one who gives a wife to Binyamin.
19. They said, Behold, there is a feast of YHWH from year to year in Shilo, which is on the north of Beit El, on the east side of the highway that goes up from Beit El to Shekhem, and on the south of Lebonah.
20. They commanded the children of Binyamin, saying, Go and lie in wait in the vineyards,
21. and see, and behold, if the daughters of Shilo come out to dance in the dances, then come you out of the vineyards, and each of you catch his wife from the daughters of Shilo, and go to the land of Binyamin.
22. It shall be, when their fathers or their brothers come to complain to us, that we will say to them, Grant them graciously to us, because we didn't take for each man his wife in battle, neither did you give them to them, else would you now be guilty.
23. The children of Binyamin did so, and took them wives, according to their number, of those who danced, whom they carried off: and they went and returned to their inheritance, and built the cities, and lived in them.
24. The children of Israel departed there at that time, everyone to their tribe and to their family, and they went out from there everyone to their inheritance.
25. In those days there was no king in Israel: everyone did that which was right in their own eyes.

Ruth 1
1. It happened in the days when the judges judged, that there was a famine in the land. A certain man of Beit Lechem Yehudah went to sojourn in the country of Moab, he, and his wife, and his two sons.
2. The name of the man was Elimelech, and the name of his wife Naomi, and the name of their two sons Mahlon and Chilion, Ephrathites of Beit Lechem Yehudah. They came into the country of Moab, and continued there.
3. Elimelech, Naomi's husband, died; and she was left, and her two sons.
4. They took them wives of the women of Moab; the name of the one was Orpah, and the name of the other Ruth: and they lived there about ten years.
5. Mahlon and Chilion died both of them; and the woman was left of her two children and of her husband.
6. Then she arose with her daughters-in-law, that she might return from the country of Moab: for she had heard in the country of Moab how that YHWH had visited his people in giving them bread.
7. She went forth out of the place where she was, and her two daughters-in-law with her; and they went on the way to return to the land of Yehudah.
8. Naomi said to her two daughters-in-law, Go, return each of you to her mother's house: YHWH deal kindly with you, as you have dealt with the dead, and with me.
9. YHWH grant you that you may find rest, each of you in the house of her husband. Then she kissed them, and they lifted up their voice, and wept.
10. They said to her, No, but we will return with you to your people.
11. Naomi said, Turn again, my daughters: why will you go with me? have I yet sons in my womb, that they may be your husbands?
12. Turn again, my daughters, go your way; for I am too old to have a husband. If I should say, I have hope, if I should even have a husband tonight, and should also bear sons;
13. would you therefore wait until they were grown? would you therefore stay from having husbands? nay, my daughters, for it grieves me much for your sakes, for the hand of YHWH is gone forth against me.
14. They lifted up their voice, and wept again: and Orpah kissed her mother-in-law, but Ruth joined with her.
15. She said, Behold, your sister-in-law is gone back to her people, and to her god: return you after your sister-in-law.
16. Ruth said, "Don't entreat me to leave you, and to return from following after you, for where you go, I will go; and where you lodge, I will lodge; your people shall be my people, and your God my God;
17. where you die, will I die, and there will I be buried: YHWH do so to me, and more also, if anything but death part you and me."
18. When she saw that she was steadfastly minded to go with her, she left off speaking to her.
19. So they two went until they came to Beit Lechem. It happened, when they were come to Beit Lechem, that all the city was moved about them, and [the women] said, Is this Naomi?
20. She said to them, "Don't call me Naomi, call me Mara; for the Almighty has dealt very bitterly with me.
21. I went out full, and YHWH has brought me home again empty; why do you call me Naomi, seeing YHWH has testified against me, and the Almighty has afflicted me?"
22. So Naomi returned, and Ruth the Moabitess, her daughter-in-law, with her, who returned out of the country of Moab: and they came to Beit Lechem in the beginning of barley harvest.

Ruth 2
1. Naomi had a kinsman of her husband's, a mighty man of wealth, of the family of Elimelech, and his name was Boaz.
2. Ruth the Moabitess said to Naomi, Let me now go to the field, and glean among the ears of grain after him in whose sight I shall find favor. She said to her, Go, my daughter.
3. She went, and came and gleaned in the field after the reapers: and she happened to come to the portion of the field belonging to Boaz, who was of the family of Elimelech.
4. Behold, Boaz came from Beit Lechem, and said to the reapers, YHWH be with you. They answered him, YHWH bless you.
5. Then said Boaz to his servant who was set over the reapers, Whose young lady is this?
6. The servant who was set over the reapers answered, It is the Moabite lady who came back with Naomi out of the country of Moab:
7. She said, Please let me glean and gather after the reapers among the sheaves. So she came, and has continued even from the morning until now, except that she stayed a little in the house.
8. Then said Boaz to Ruth, Don't you hear, my daughter? Don't go to glean in another field, neither pass from hence, but abide here fast by my maidens.
9. Let your eyes be on the field that they reap, and go after them: haven't I charged the young people that they shall not touch you? and when you are thirsty, go to the vessels, and drink of that which the young people have drawn.
10. Then she fell on her face, and bowed herself to the ground, and said to him, Why have I found favor in your sight, that you should take knowledge of me, seeing I am a foreigner?
11. Boaz answered her, It has fully been shown me, all that you have done to your mother-in-law since the death of your husband; and how you have left your father and your mother, and the land of your birth, and have come to a people that you didn't know before.
12. YHWH recompense your work, and a full reward be given you of YHWH, the God of Israel, under whose wings you are come to take refuge.
13. Then she said, Let me find favor in your sight, my lord, because you have comforted me, and because you have spoken kindly to your handmaid, though I am not as one of your handmaidens.
14. At meal time Boaz said to her, Come here, and eat of the bread, and dip your morsel in the vinegar. She sat beside the reapers, and they reached her parched grain, and she ate, and was sufficed, and left of it.
15. When she was risen up to glean, Boaz commanded his young people, saying, Let her glean even among the sheaves, and don't reproach her.
16. Also pull out some for her from the bundles, and leave it, and let her glean, and don't rebuke her.
17. So she gleaned in the field until even; and she beat out that which she had gleaned, and it was about an ephah of barley.
18. She took it up, and went into the city; and her mother-in-law saw what she had gleaned: and she brought forth and gave to her that which she had left after she was sufficed.
19. Her mother-in-law said to her, Where have you gleaned today? and where have you worked? blessed be the one who did take knowledge of you. She shown her mother-in-law with whom she had worked, and said, The man's name with whom I worked today is Boaz.
20. Naomi said to her daughter-in-law, Blessed be he of YHWH, who has not left off his kindness to the living and to the dead. Naomi said to her, The man is a close relative to us, one of our near kinsmen.
21. Ruth the Moabitess said, Yes, he said to me, You shall keep fast by my young people, until they have ended all my harvest.
22. Naomi said to Ruth her daughter-in-law, It is good, my daughter, that you go out with his maidens, and that they not meet you in any other field.
23. So she kept fast by the maidens of Boaz, to glean to the end of barley harvest and of wheat harvest; and she lived with her mother-in-law.

Ruth 3
1. Naomi her mother-in-law said to her, My daughter, shall I not seek rest for you, that it may be well with you?
2. Now isn't Boaz our kinsman, with whose maidens you were? Behold, he winnows barley tonight in the threshing floor.
3. Wash yourself therefore, and anoint you, and put your clothing on you, and get you down to the threshing floor, but don't make yourself known to the person, until they shall have done eating and drinking.
4. It shall be, when he lies down, that you shall mark the place where he shall lie, and you shall go in, and uncover his feet, and lay you down; and he will tell you what you shall do.
5. She said to her, All that you say I will do.
6. She went down to the threshing floor, and did according to all that her mother-in-law told her.
7. When Boaz had eaten and drunk, and his heart was merry, he went to lie down at the end of the heap of grain: and she came softly, and uncovered his feet, and laid her down.
8. It happened at midnight, that the person was afraid, and turned themselves; and behold, a woman lay at his feet.
9. He said, Who are you? She answered, I am Ruth your handmaid: spread therefore your skirt over your handmaid; for you are a near kinsman.
10. He said, Blessed are you by YHWH, my daughter: you have shown more kindness in the latter end than at the beginning, inasmuch as you didn't follow young people, whether poor or rich.
11. Now, my daughter, don't be afraid; I will do to you all that you say; for all the city of my people does know that you are a worthy woman.
12. Now it is true that I am a near kinsman; however there is a kinsman nearer than I.
13. Stay this night, and it shall be in the morning, that if he will perform to you the part of a kinsman, well; let him do the kinsman's part: but if he will not do the part of a kinsman to you, then will I do the part of a kinsman to you, as YHWH lives: lie down until the morning.
14. She lay at his feet until the morning. She rose up before one could discern another. For he said, Let it not be known that the woman came to the threshing floor.
15. He said, Bring the mantle that is on you, and hold it; and she held it; and he measured six [measures] of barley, and laid it on her: and he went into the city.
16. When she came to her mother-in-law, she said, Who are you, my daughter? She told her all that the person had done to her.
17. She said, These six [measures] of barley gave he me; for he said, "Don't go empty to your mother-in-law."
18. Then said she, "Sit still, my daughter, until you know how the matter will fall; for the person will not rest, until they have finished the thing this day."

Ruth 4
1. Now Boaz went up to the gate, and sat him down there: and behold, the near kinsman of whom Boaz spoke came by; to whom he said, Ho, such a one! turn aside, sit down here. He turned aside, and sat down.
2. He took ten men of the elders of the city, and said, Sit you down here. They sat down.
3. He said to the near kinsman, Naomi, who has come back out of the country of Moab, is selling the parcel of land, which was our brother Elimelech's:
4. I thought to disclose it to you, saying, Buy it before those who sit here, and before the elders of my people. If you will redeem it, redeem it: but if you will not redeem it, then tell me, that I may know; for there is none to redeem it besides you; and I am after you. He said, I will redeem it.
5. Then said Boaz, What day you buy the field of the hand of Naomi, you must buy it also of Ruth the Moabitess, the wife of the dead, to raise up the name of the dead on his inheritance.
6. The near kinsman said, I can't redeem it for myself, lest I mar my own inheritance: take my right of redemption on you; for I can't redeem it.
7. Now this was [the custom] in former time in Israel concerning redeeming and concerning exchanging, to confirm all things: a person drew off their shoe, and gave it to their neighbor; and this was the [manner of] attestation in Israel.
8. So the near kinsman said to Boaz, Buy it for yourself. He drew off his shoe.
9. Boaz said to the elders, and to all the people, You are witnesses this day, that I have bought all that was Elimelech's, and all that was Chilion's and Mahlon's, of the hand of Naomi.
10. Moreover Ruth the Moabitess, the wife of Mahlon, have I purchased to be my wife, to raise up the name of the dead on his inheritance, that the name of the dead not be cut off from among his brothers, and from the gate of his place: you are witnesses this day.
11. All the people who were in the gate, and the elders, said, We are witnesses. YHWH make the woman who has come into your house like Rakhel and like Leah, which two built the house of Israel: and do you worthily in Ephrathah, and be famous in Beit Lechem:
12. and let your house be like the house of Perez, whom Tamar bore to Yehudah, of the seed which YHWH shall give you of this young woman.
13. So Boaz took Ruth, and she became his wife; and he went in to her, and YHWH gave her conception, and she bore a son.
14. The women said to Naomi, Blessed be YHWH, who has not left you this day without a near kinsman; and let his name be famous in Israel.
15. He shall be to you a restorer of life, and sustain you in your old age, for your daughter-in-law, who loves you, who is better to you than seven sons, has borne him.
16. Naomi took the child, and laid it in her bosom, and became nurse to it.
17. The women her neighbors gave it a name, saying, There is a son born to Naomi; and they named him Obed: he is the father of Yishai, the father of Dawid.
18. Now this is the history of the generations of Perez: Perez became the father of Hezron,
19. and Hezron became the father of Ram, and Ram became the father of Amminadab,
20. and Amminadab became the father of Nahshon, and Nahshon became the father of Salmon,
21. and Salmon became the father of Boaz, and Boaz became the father of Obed,
22. and Obed became the father of Yishai, and Yishai became the father of Dawid.

1 Samuel 1
1. Now there was a certain man of Ramathaim Zophim, of the hill country of Efrayim, and his name was Elkanah, the son of Jeroham, the son of Elihu, the son of Tohu, the son of Zuph, an Ephraimite:
2. and he had two wives; the name of the one was Hannah, and the name of other Peninnah: and Peninnah had children, but Hannah had no children.
3. This man went up out of his city from year to year to worship and to sacrifice to YHWH of Armies in Shilo. The two sons of Eli, Hophni and Phinehas, priests to YHWH, were there.
4. When the day came that Elkanah sacrificed, he gave to Peninnah his wife, and to all her sons and her daughters, portions:
5. but to Hannah he gave a double portion; for he loved Hannah, but YHWH had shut up her womb.
6. Her rival provoked her sore, to make her fret, because YHWH had shut up her womb.
7. [as] he did so year by year, when she went up to the house of YHWH, so she provoked her; therefore she wept, and did not eat.
8. Elkanah her husband said to her, Hannah, why weep you? and why don't you eat? and why is your heart grieved? am I not better to you than ten sons?
9. So Hannah rose up after they had eaten in Shilo, and after they had drunk. Now Eli the priest was sitting on his seat by the doorpost of the temple of YHWH.
10. She was in bitterness of soul, and prayed to YHWH, and wept sore.
11. She vowed a vow, and said, YHWH of Armies, if you will indeed look on the affliction of your handmaid, and remember me, and not forget your handmaid, but will give to your handmaid a boy, then I will give him to YHWH all the days of his life, and there shall no razor come on his head.
12. It happened, as she continued praying before YHWH, that Eli marked her mouth.
13. Now Hannah, she spoke in her heart; only her lips moved, but her voice was not heard: therefore Eli thought she had been drunken.
14. Eli said to her, How long will you be drunken? put away your wine from you.
15. Hannah answered, No, my lord, I am a woman of a sorrowful spirit: I have drunk neither wine nor strong drink, but I poured out my soul before YHWH.
16. Don't count your handmaid for a wicked woman; for out of the abundance of my complaint and my provocation have I spoken hitherto.
17. Then Eli answered, Go in peace; and the God of Israel grant your petition that you have asked of him.
18. She said, Let your handmaid find favor in your sight. So the woman went her way, and ate; and her facial expression wasn't sad any more.
19. They rose up in the morning early, and worshiped before YHWH, and returned, and came to their house to Ramah: and Elkanah knew Hannah his wife; and YHWH remembered her.
20. It happened, when the time was come about, that Hannah conceived, and bore a son; and she named him Shmuel, [saying], Because I have asked him of YHWH.
21. The person Elkanah, and all their house, went up to offer to YHWH the yearly sacrifice, and their vow.
22. But Hannah didn't go up; for she said to her husband, [I will not go up] until the child be weaned; and then I will bring him, that he may appear before YHWH, and there abide forever.
23. Elkanah her husband said to her, Do what seems you good; wait until you have weaned him; only YHWH establish his word. So the woman waited and nursed her son, until she weaned him.
24. When she had weaned him, she took him up with her, with three bulls, and one ephah of meal, and a bottle of wine, and brought him to the house of YHWH in Shilo: and the child was young.
25. They killed the bull, and brought the child to Eli.
26. She said, Oh, my lord, as your soul lives, my lord, I am the woman who stood by you here, praying to YHWH.
27. For this child I prayed; and YHWH has given me my petition which I asked of him:
28. therefore also I have granted him to YHWH; as long as he lives he is granted to YHWH. He worshiped YHWH there.

1 Samuel 2
1. Hannah prayed, and said: My heart exults in YHWH! My horn is exalted in YHWH. My mouth is enlarged over my enemies, because I rejoice in your salvation.
2. There is no one as holy as YHWH, For there is no one besides you, nor is there any rock like our God.
3. Talk no more so exceeding proudly. Don't let arrogance come out of your mouth, For YHWH is a God of knowledge. By him actions are weighed.
4. The bows of the mighty people are broken. Those who stumbled are girded with strength.
5. Those who were full have hired themselves out for bread. Those who were hungry have ceased [to hunger]. Yes, the barren has borne seven. She who has many children languishes.
6. YHWH kills, and makes alive. He brings down to Sheol, and brings up.
7. YHWH makes poor, and makes rich. He brings low, he also lifts up.
8. He raises up the poor out of the dust. He lifts up the needy from the dunghill, To make them sit with princes, and inherit the throne of glory, for the pillars of the earth are YHWH's. He has set the world on them.
9. He will keep the feet of his holy ones, but the wicked shall be put to silence in darkness; for no one shall prevail by strength.
10. Those who strive with YHWH shall be broken to pieces. He will thunder against them in the heavens. YHWH will judge the ends of the earth. He will give strength to his king, and exalt the horn of his anointed.
11. Elkanah went to Ramah to his house. The child did minister to YHWH before Eli the priest.
12. Now the sons of Eli were base men; they didn't know YHWH.
13. The custom of the priests with the people was that when anyone offered sacrifice, the priest's servant came, while the flesh was boiling, with a fork of three teeth in their hand;
14. and he struck it into the pan, or kettle, or caldron, or pot; all that the fork brought up the priest took therewith. So they did in Shilo to all the Israelites who came there.
15. Yes, before they burnt the fat, the priest's servant came, and said to the one who sacrificed, Give flesh to roast for the priest; for he will not have boiled flesh of you, but raw.
16. If the person said to him, They will surely burn the fat first, and then take as much as your soul desires; then he would say, No, but you shall give it me now: and if not, I will take it by force.
17. The sin of the young people was very great before YHWH; for the men despised the offering of YHWH.
18. But Shmuel ministered before YHWH, being a child, girded with a linen ephod.
19. Moreover his mother made him a little robe, and brought it to him from year to year, when she came up with her husband to offer the yearly sacrifice.
20. Eli blessed Elkanah and his wife, and said, YHWH give you seed of this woman for the petition which was asked of YHWH. They went to their own home.
21. YHWH visited Hannah, and she conceived, and bore three sons and two daughters. The child Shmuel grew before YHWH.
22. Now Eli was very old; and he heard all that his sons did to all Israel, and how that they lay with the women who served at the door of the tent of meeting.
23. He said to them, Why do you such things? for I hear of your broken dealings from all this people.
24. No, my sons; for it is no good report that I hear: you make YHWH's people to disobey.
25. If one man sin against another, Elohim shall judge him; but if someone sin against YHWH, who shall entreat for them? Notwithstanding, they didn't listen to the voice of their father, because YHWH was minded to kill them.
26. The child Shmuel grew on, and increased in favor both with YHWH, and also with people.
27. There came a person of Elohim to Eli, and said to him, Thus says YHWH, Did I reveal myself to the house of your father, when they were in Mitzrayim [in bondage] to Pharaoh's house?
28. and did I choose him out of all the tribes of Israel to be my priest, to go up to my altar, to burn incense, to wear an ephod before me? and did I give to the house of your father all the offerings of the children of Israel made by fire?
29. Why kick you at my sacrifice and at my offering, which I have commanded in [my] habitation, and honor your sons above me, to make yourselves fat with the best of all the offerings of Israel my people?
30. Therefore YHWH, the God of Israel, says, I said indeed that your house, and the house of your father, should walk before me forever: but now YHWH says, Be it far from me; for those who honor me I will honor, and those who despise me shall be lightly esteemed.
31. Behold, the days come, that I will cut off your arm, and the arm of your father's house, that there shall not be an old man in your house.
32. You shall see the affliction of [my] habitation, in all the wealth which [Elohim] shall give Israel; and there shall not be an old man in your house forever.
33. The person of yours, [whom] I shall not cut off from my altar, [shall be] to consume your eyes, and to grieve your heart; and all the increase of your house shall die in the flower of their age.
34. This shall be the sign to you, that shall come on your two sons, on Hophni and Phinehas: in one day they shall die both of them.
35. I will raise me up a faithful priest, that shall do according to that which is in my heart and in my mind: and I will build him a sure house; and he shall walk before my anointed forever.
36. It shall happen, that everyone who is left in your house shall come and bow down to him for a piece of silver and a loaf of bread, and shall say, Please put me into one of the priests' offices, that I may eat a morsel of bread.

1 Samuel 3
1. The child Shmuel ministered to YHWH before Eli. The word of YHWH was precious in those days; there was no frequent vision.
2. It happened at that time, when Eli was laid down in his place (now his eyes had begun to grow dim, so that he could not see),
3. and the lamp of Elohim hadn't yet gone out, and Shmuel had laid down [to sleep], in the temple of YHWH, where the ark of Elohim was;
4. that YHWH called Shmuel; and he said, Here am I.
5. He ran to Eli, and said, Here am I; for you called me. He said, I didn't call; lie down again. He went and lay down.
6. YHWH called yet again, Shmuel. Shmuel arose and went to Eli, and said, Here am I; for you called me. He answered, I didn't call, my son; lie down again.
7. Now Shmuel didn't yet know YHWH, neither was the word of YHWH yet revealed to him.
8. YHWH called Shmuel again the third time. He arose and went to Eli, and said, Here am I; for you called me. Eli perceived that YHWH had called the child.
9. Therefore Eli said to Shmuel, Go, lie down: and it shall be, if he call you, that you shall say, Speak, YHWH; for your servant hears. So Shmuel went and lay down in his place.
10. YHWH came, and stood, and called as at other times, Shmuel, Shmuel. Then Shmuel said, Speak; for your servant hears.
11. YHWH said to Shmuel, Behold, I will do a thing in Israel, at which both the ears of everyone who hears it shall tingle.
12. In that day I will perform against Eli all that I have spoken concerning his house, from the beginning even to the end.
13. For I have told him that I will judge his house forever, for the iniquity which he knew, because his sons did bring a curse on themselves, and he didn't restrain them.
14. Therefore I have sworn to the house of Eli, that the iniquity of Eli's house shall not be expiated with sacrifice nor offering forever.
15. Shmuel lay until the morning, and opened the doors of the house of YHWH. Shmuel feared to show Eli the vision.
16. Then Eli called Shmuel, and said, Shmuel, my son. He said, Here am I.
17. He said, "What is the thing that [YHWH] has spoken to you? Please don't hide it from me. Elohim do so to you, and more also, if you hide anything from me of all the things that he spoke to you."
18. Shmuel told him every whit, and hid nothing from him. He said, It is YHWH: let him do what seems him good.
19. Shmuel grew, and YHWH was with him, and did let none of his words fall to the ground.
20. All Israel from Dan even to Be'er Sheva knew that Shmuel was established to be a prophet of YHWH.
21. YHWH appeared again in Shilo; for YHWH revealed himself to Shmuel in Shilo by the word of YHWH.

1 Samuel 4
1. The word of Shmuel came to all Israel. Now Israel went out against the Philistines to battle, and encamped beside Ebenezer: and the Philistines encamped in Aphek.
2. The Philistines put themselves in array against Israel: and when they joined battle, Israel was struck before the Philistines; and they killed of the army in the field about four thousand men.
3. When the people were come into the camp, the elders of Israel said, Why has YHWH struck us today before the Philistines? Let us get the ark of the covenant of YHWH out of Shilo to us, that it may come among us, and save us out of the hand of our enemies.
4. So the people sent to Shilo; and they brought from there the ark of the covenant of YHWH of Armies, who sits [above] the cherubim: and the two sons of Eli, Hophni and Phinehas, were there with the ark of the covenant of Elohim.
5. When the ark of the covenant of YHWH came into the camp, all Israel shouted with a great shout, so that the earth rang again.
6. When the Philistines heard the noise of the shout, they said, What means the noise of this great shout in the camp of the Hebrews? They understood that the ark of YHWH was come into the camp.
7. The Philistines were afraid, for they said, Elohim is come into the camp. They said, Woe to us! for there has not been such a thing heretofore.
8. Woe to us! who shall deliver us out of the hand of these mighty gods? these are the gods that struck the Egyptians with all manner of plagues in the wilderness.
9. Be strong, and behave yourselves like men, O you Philistines, that you not be servants to the Hebrews, as they have been to you: quit yourselves like men, and fight.
10. The Philistines fought, and Israel was struck, and they fled everyone to their tent: and there was a very great slaughter; for there fell of Israel thirty thousand footmen.
11. The ark of Elohim was taken; and the two sons of Eli, Hophni and Phinehas, were slain.
12. There ran a person of Binyamin out of the army, and came to Shilo the same day, with their clothes torn, and with earth on their head.
13. When he came, behold, Eli was sitting on his seat by the road watching; for his heart trembled for the ark of Elohim. When the person came into the city, and told it, all the city cried out.
14. When Eli heard the noise of the crying, he said, What means the noise of this tumult? The person hurried, and came and told Eli.
15. Now Eli was ninety-eight years old; and his eyes were set, so that he could not see.
16. The person said to Eli, I am the one who came out of the army, and I fled today out of the army. He said, How went the matter, my son?
17. The one who brought the news answered, Israel is fled before the Philistines, and there has been also a great slaughter among the people, and your two sons also, Hophni and Phinehas, are dead, and the ark of Elohim is taken.
18. It happened, when he made mention of the ark of Elohim, that [Eli] fell from off his seat backward by the side of the gate; and his neck broke, and he died: for he was an old man, and heavy. He had judged Israel forty years.
19. His daughter-in-law, Phinehas' wife, was with child, near to be delivered: and when she heard the news that the ark of Elohim was taken, and that her father-in-law and her husband were dead, she bowed herself and brought forth; for her pains came on her.
20. About the time of her death the women who stood by her said to her, Don't be afraid; for you have brought forth a son. But she didn't answer, neither did she regard it.
21. She named the child Ichabod, saying, The glory is departed from Israel; because the ark of Elohim was taken, and because of her father-in-law and her husband.
22. She said, The glory is departed from Israel; for the ark of Elohim is taken.

1 Samuel 5
1. Now the Philistines had taken the ark of Elohim, and they brought it from Ebenezer to Ashdod.
2. The Philistines took the ark of Elohim, and brought it into the house of Dagon, and set it by Dagon.
3. When they of Ashdod arose early on the next day, behold, Dagon was fallen on his face to the ground before the ark of YHWH. They took Dagon, and set him in his place again.
4. When they arose early on the next day morning, behold, Dagon was fallen on his face to the ground before the ark of YHWH; and the head of Dagon and both the palms of his hands [lay] cut off on the threshold; only [the stump of] Dagon was left to him.
5. Therefore neither the priests of Dagon, nor any who come into Dagon's house, tread on the threshold of Dagon in Ashdod, to this day.
6. But the hand of YHWH was heavy on them of Ashdod, and he destroyed them, and struck them with tumors, even Ashdod and the borders of it.
7. When the men of Ashdod saw that it was so, they said, The ark of the God of Israel shall not abide with us; for his hand is sore on us, and on Dagon our god.
8. They sent therefore and gathered all the lords of the Philistines to them, and said, What shall we do with the ark of the God of Israel? They answered, Let the ark of the God of Israel be carried about to Gath. They carried the ark of the God of Israel [there].
9. It was so, that after they had carried it about, the hand of YHWH was against the city with a very great confusion: and he struck the men of the city, both small and great; and tumors broke out on them.
10. So they sent the ark of Elohim to Ekron. It happened, as the ark of Elohim came to Ekron, that the Ekronites cried out, saying, They have brought about the ark of the God of Israel to us, to kill us and our people.
11. They sent therefore and gathered together all the lords of the Philistines, and they said, Send away the ark of the God of Israel, and let it go again to its own place, that it not kill us and our people. For there was a deadly confusion throughout all the city; the hand of Elohim was very heavy there.
12. The people who didn't die were struck with the tumors; and the cry of the city went up to heavens.

1 Samuel 6
1. The ark of YHWH was in the country of the Philistines seven months.
2. The Philistines called for the priests and the diviners, saying, "What shall we do with the ark of YHWH? Show us with which we shall send it to its place."
3. They said, "If you send away the ark of the God of Israel, don't send it empty; but by all means return him a trespass offering: then you shall be healed, and it shall be known to you why his hand is not removed from you."
4. Then they said, "What shall be the trespass offering which we shall return to him?" They said, "Five golden tumors, and five golden mice, [according to] the number of the lords of the Philistines; for one plague was on you all, and on your lords.
5. Therefore you shall make images of your tumors, and images of your mice that mar the land; and you shall give glory to the God of Israel: peradventure he will lighten his hand from off you, and from off your gods, and from off your land.
6. Why then do you harden your hearts, as the Egyptians and Pharaoh hardened their hearts? When he had worked wonderfully among them, didn't they let the people go, and they departed?
7. Now therefore take and prepare yourselves a new cart, and two milk cows, on which there has come no yoke; and tie the cows to the cart, and bring their calves home from them;
8. and take the ark of YHWH, and lay it on the cart; and put the jewels of gold, which you return him for a trespass offering, in a coffer by the side of it; and send it away, that it may go.
9. Behold; if it goes up by the way of its own border to Beth Shemesh, then he has done us this great brokenness: but if not, then we shall know that it is not his hand that struck us; it was a chance that happened to us."
10. The men did so, and took two milk cows, and tied them to the cart, and shut up their calves at home;
11. and they put the ark of YHWH on the cart, and the coffer with the mice of gold and the images of their tumors.
12. The cows took the straight way by the way to Beth Shemesh; they went along the highway, lowing as they went, and didn't turn aside to the right hand or to the left; and the lords of the Philistines went after them to the border of Beth Shemesh.
13. They of Beth Shemesh were reaping their wheat harvest in the valley; and they lifted up their eyes, and saw the ark, and rejoiced to see it.
14. The cart came into the field of Yehoshua of Beth Shemesh, and stood there, where there was a great stone: and they split the wood of the cart, and offered up the cows for a burnt offering to YHWH.
15. The Levites took down the ark of YHWH, and the coffer that was with it, in which the jewels of gold were, and put them on the great stone: and the men of Beth Shemesh offered burnt offerings and sacrificed sacrifices the same day to YHWH.
16. When the five lords of the Philistines had seen it, they returned to Ekron the same day.
17. These are the golden tumors which the Philistines returned for a trespass offering to YHWH: for Ashdod one, for Azzah one, for Ashkelon one, for Gath one, for Ekron one;
18. and the golden mice, according to the number of all the cities of the Philistines belonging to the five lords, both of fortified cities and of country villages, even to the great stone, whereon they set down the ark of YHWH, [which stone remains] to this day in the field of Yehoshua of Beth Shemesh.
19. He struck of the men of Beth Shemesh, because they had looked into the ark of YHWH, he struck of the people fifty thousand seventy men; and the people mourned, because YHWH had struck the people with a great slaughter.
20. The men of Beth Shemesh said, Who is able to stand before YHWH, this holy Elohim? and to whom shall he go up from us?
21. They sent messengers to the inhabitants of Kiriath Jearim, saying, The Philistines have brought back the ark of YHWH; come you down, and bring it up to you.

1 Samuel 7
1. The men of Kiriath Jearim came, and fetched up the ark of YHWH, and brought it into the house of Abinadab in the hill, and sanctified Eleazar his son to keep the ark of YHWH.
2. It happened, from the day that the ark abode in Kiriath Jearim, that the time was long; for it was twenty years: and all the house of Israel lamented after YHWH.
3. Shmuel spoke to all the house of Israel, saying, If you do return to YHWH with all your heart, then put away the foreign gods and the Ashtaroth from among you, and direct your hearts to YHWH, and serve him only; and he will deliver you out of the hand of the Philistines.
4. Then the children of Israel did put away the Baals and the Ashtaroth, and served YHWH only.
5. Shmuel said, "Gather all Israel to Mizpah, and I will pray for you to YHWH."
6. They gathered together to Mizpah, and drew water, and poured it out before YHWH, and fasted on that day, and said there, "We have sinned against YHWH." Shmuel judged the children of Israel in Mizpah.
7. When the Philistines heard that the children of Israel were gathered together at Mizpah, the lords of the Philistines went up against Israel. When the children of Israel heard it, they were afraid of the Philistines.
8. The children of Israel said to Shmuel, "Don't cease to cry to YHWH our God for us, that he will save us out of the hand of the Philistines."
9. Shmuel took a sucking lamb, and offered it for a whole burnt offering to YHWH: and Shmuel cried to YHWH for Israel; and YHWH answered him.
10. As Shmuel was offering up the burnt offering, the Philistines drew near to battle against Israel; but YHWH thundered with a great thunder on that day on the Philistines, and confused them; and they were struck down before Israel.
11. The people of Israel went out of Mizpah, and pursued the Philistines, and struck them, until they came under Beth Kar.
12. Then Shmuel took a stone, and set it between Mizpah and Shen, and called the name of it Ebenezer, saying, Hitherto has YHWH helped us.
13. So the Philistines were subdued, and they came no more within the border of Israel: and the hand of YHWH was against the Philistines all the days of Shmuel.
14. The cities which the Philistines had taken from Israel were restored to Israel, from Ekron even to Gath; and the border of it did Israel deliver out of the hand of the Philistines. There was peace between Israel and the Amorites.
15. Shmuel judged Israel all the days of his life.
16. He went from year to year in circuit to Beit El and Gilgal, and Mizpah; and he judged Israel in all those places.
17. His return was to Ramah, for there was his house; and there he judged Israel: and he built there an altar to YHWH.

1 Samuel 8
1. It happened, when Shmuel was old, that he made his sons judges over Israel.
2. Now the name of his firstborn was Joel; and the name of his second, Abijah: they were judges in Be'er Sheva.
3. His sons didn't walk in his ways, but turned aside after lucre, and took bribes, and perverted justice.
4. Then all the elders of Israel gathered themselves together, and came to Shmuel to Ramah;
5. and they said to him, Behold, you are old, and your sons don't walk in your ways: now make us a king to judge us like all the nations.
6. But the thing displeased Shmuel, when they said, Give us a king to judge us. Shmuel prayed to YHWH.
7. YHWH said to Shmuel, Listen to the voice of the people in all that they tell you; for they have not rejected you, but they have rejected me, that I should not be king over them.
8. According to all the works which they have done since the day that I brought them up out of Mitzrayim even to this day, in that they have forsaken me, and served other gods, so do they also to you.
9. Now therefore listen to their voice: however you shall protest solemnly to them, and shall show them the manner of the king who shall reign over them.
10. Shmuel told all the words of YHWH to the people who asked of him a king.
11. He said, This will be the manner of the king who shall reign over you: he will take your sons, and appoint them to him, for his chariots, and to be his horsemen; and they shall run before his chariots;
12. and he will appoint them to him for captains of thousands, and captains of fifties; and [he will set some] to plow his ground, and to reap his harvest, and to make his instruments of war, and the instruments of his chariots.
13. He will take your daughters to be perfumers, and to be cooks, and to be bakers.
14. He will take your fields, and your vineyards, and your olive groves, even the best of them, and give them to his servants.
15. He will take the tenth of your seed, and of your vineyards, and give to his officers, and to his servants.
16. He will take your male servants, and your female servants, and your best young people, and your donkeys, and put them to his work.
17. He will take the tenth of your flocks: and you shall be his servants.
18. You shall cry out in that day because of your king whom you shall have chosen you; and YHWH will not answer you in that day.
19. But the people refused to listen to the voice of Shmuel; and they said, No: but we will have a king over us,
20. that we also may be like all the nations, and that our king may judge us, and go out before us, and fight our battles.
21. Shmuel heard all the words of the people, and he rehearsed them in the ears of YHWH.
22. YHWH said to Shmuel, Listen to their voice, and make them a king. Shmuel said to the people of Israel, Go you everyone to their city.

1 Samuel 9
1. Now there was a person of Binyamin, whose name was Kish, the son of Abiel, the son of Zeror, the son of Becorath, the son of Aphiah, the son of a Benjamite, a mighty man of valor.
2. He had a son, whose name was Shaul, an impressive young person; and there was not among the children of Israel a better person than he. From his shoulders and upward he was higher than any of the people.
3. The donkeys of Kish, Shaul's father, were lost. Kish said to Shaul his son, Take now one of the servants with you, and arise, go seek the donkeys.
4. He passed through the hill country of Efrayim, and passed through the land of Shalishah, but they didn't find them: then they passed through the land of Shaalim, and there they weren't there: and he passed through the land of the Benjamites, but they didn't find them.
5. When they had come to the land of Zuph, Shaul said to his servant who was with him, Come, and let us return, lest my father leave off caring for the donkeys, and be anxious for us.
6. They said to him, See now, there is in this city a person of Elohim, and they are a person who is held in honor; all that he says comes surely to pass: now let us go there; peradventure he can tell us concerning our journey whereon we go.
7. Then said Shaul to their servant, But, behold, if we go, what shall we bring the person? for the bread is spent in our vessels, and there is not a present to bring to the person of Elohim: what have we?
8. The servant answered Shaul again, and said, Behold, I have in my hand the fourth part of a shekel of silver: that will I give to the person of Elohim, to tell us our way.
9. (In earlier times in Israel, when someone went to inquire of Elohim, thus they said, Come, and let us go to the seer; for the one who is now called a Prophet was before called a Seer.)
10. Then said Shaul to his servant, Well said; come, let us go. So they went to the city where the person of Elohim was.
11. As they went up the ascent to the city, they found young maidens going out to draw water, and said to them, Is the seer here?
12. They answered them, and said, He is; behold, [he is] before you: make haste now, for he is come today into the city; for the people have a sacrifice today in the high place:
13. as soon as you are come into the city, you shall immediately find him, before he goes up to the high place to eat; for the people will not eat until he come, because he does bless the sacrifice; [and] afterwards they eat who are invited. Now therefore get you up; for at this time you shall find him.
14. They went up to the city; [and] as they came within the city, behold, Shmuel came out toward them, to go up to the high place.
15. Now YHWH had revealed to Shmuel a day before Shaul came, saying,
16. Tomorrow about this time I will send you a person out of the land of Binyamin, and you shall anoint him to be prince over my people Israel; and he shall save my people out of the hand of the Philistines: for I have looked on my people, because their cry is come to me.
17. When Shmuel saw Shaul, YHWH said to him, Behold, the person of whom I spoke to you! this same shall have authority over my people.
18. Then Shaul drew near to Shmuel in the gate, and said, Tell me, Please, where the seer's house is.
19. Shmuel answered Shaul, and said, I am the seer; go up before me to the high place, for you shall eat with me today: and in the morning I will let you go, and will tell you all that is in your heart.
20. As for your donkeys who were lost three days ago, don't set your mind on them; for they are found. For whom is all that is desirable in Israel? Is it not for you, and for all your father's house?
21. Shaul answered, Am I not a Benjamite, of the smallest of the tribes of Israel? and my family the least of all the families of the tribe of Binyamin? why then speak you to me after this manner?
22. Shmuel took Shaul and his servant, and brought them into the guest room, and made them sit in the best place among those who were invited, who were about thirty persons.
23. Shmuel said to the cook, Bring the portion which I gave you, of which I said to you, Set it by you.
24. The cook took up the thigh, and that which was on it, and set it before Shaul. [Shmuel] said, Behold, that which has been reserved! set it before you and eat; because to the appointed time has it been kept for you, for I said, I have invited the people. So Shaul ate with Shmuel that day.
25. When they were come down from the high place into the city, he talked with Shaul on the housetop.
26. They arose early: and it happened about the spring of the day, that Shmuel called to Shaul on the housetop, saying, Up, that I may send you away. Shaul arose, and they went out both of them, he and Shmuel, abroad.
27. As they were going down at the end of the city, Shmuel said to Shaul, Bid the servant pass on before us (and he passed on), but stand you still first, that I may cause you to hear the word of Elohim.

1 Samuel 10
1. Then Shmuel took the vial of oil, and poured it on his head, and kissed him, and said, Isn't it that YHWH has anointed you to be prince over his inheritance?
2. When you are departed from me today, then you shall find two men by Rakhel's tomb, in the border of Binyamin at Zelzah; and they will tell you, The donkeys which you went to seek are found; and behold, your father has left off caring for the donkeys, and is anxious for you, saying, What shall I do for my son?
3. Then shall you go on forward from there, and you shall come to the oak of Tabor; and there shall meet you there three men going up to Elohim to Beit El, one carrying three kids, and another carrying three loaves of bread, and another carrying a bottle of wine:
4. and they will greet you, and give you two loaves of bread, which you shall receive of their hand.
5. After that you shall come to the hill of Elohim, where is the garrison of the Philistines: and it shall happen, when you are come there to the city, that you shall meet a band of prophets coming down from the high place with a psaltery, and a tambourine, and a pipe, and a harp, before them; and they will be prophesying:
6. and the Ruach of YHWH will come mightily on you, and you shall prophesy with them, and shall be turned into another man.
7. Let it be, when these signs are come to you, that you do as occasion shall serve you; for Elohim is with you.
8. You shall go down before me to Gilgal; and behold, I will come down to you, to offer burnt offerings, and to sacrifice sacrifices of peace offerings: seven days shall you wait, until I come to you, and show you what you shall do.
9. It was so, that when he had turned his back to go from Shmuel, Elohim gave him another heart: and all those signs happened that day.
10. When they came there to the hill, behold, a band of prophets met him; and the Ruach of Elohim came mightily on him, and he prophesied among them.
11. It happened, when all who knew him before saw that, behold, he prophesied with the prophets, then the people said one to another, What is this that is come to the son of Kish? Is Shaul also among the prophets?
12. One of the same place answered, Who is their father? Therefore it became a proverb, Is Shaul also among the prophets?
13. When he had made an end of prophesying, he came to the high place.
14. Shaul's uncle said to him and to his servant, Where went you? He said, To seek the donkeys; and when we saw that they were not found, we came to Shmuel.
15. Shaul's uncle said, Tell me, Please, what Shmuel said to you.
16. Shaul said to his uncle, He told us plainly that the donkeys were found. But concerning the matter of the kingdom, of which Shmuel spoke, he didn't tell him.
17. Shmuel called the people together to YHWH to Mizpah;
18. and he said to the children of Israel, Thus says YHWH, the God of Israel, I brought up Israel out of Mitzrayim, and I delivered you out of the hand of the Egyptians, and out of the hand of all the kingdoms that oppressed you:
19. but you have this day rejected your God, who himself saves you out of all your calamities and your distresses; and you have said to him, [No], but set a king over us. Now therefore present yourselves before YHWH by your tribes, and by your thousands.
20. So Shmuel brought all the tribes of Israel near, and the tribe of Binyamin was taken.
21. He brought the tribe of Binyamin near by their families; and the family of the Matrites was taken; and Shaul the son of Kish was taken: but when they sought him, he could not be found.
22. Therefore they asked of YHWH further, Is there yet a person to come here? YHWH answered, Behold, he has hid himself among the baggage.
23. They ran and fetched him there; and when he stood among the people, he was higher than any of the people from his shoulders and upward.
24. Shmuel said to all the people, "You see the one whom YHWH has chosen, that there is none like him among all the people?" All the people shouted, and said, [Long] live the king.
25. Then Shmuel told the people the manner of the kingdom, and wrote it in a book, and laid it up before YHWH. Shmuel sent all the people away, everyone to their house.
26. Shaul also went to his house to Gibeah; and there went with him the army, whose hearts Elohim had touched.
27. But certain worthless fellows said, How shall this man save us? They despised him, and brought him no present. But he held his peace.

1 Samuel 11
1. Then Nahash the Ammonite came up, and encamped against Jabesh Gilead: and all the men of Jabesh said to Nahash, Make a covenant with us, and we will serve you.
2. Nahash the Ammonite said to them, On this condition will I make it with you, that all your right eyes be put out; and I will lay it for a reproach on all Israel.
3. The elders of Jabesh said to him, Give us seven days' respite, that we may send messengers to all the borders of Israel; and then, if there be none to save us, we will come out to you.
4. Then came the messengers to Gibeah of Shaul, and spoke these words in the ears of the people: and all the people lifted up their voice, and wept.
5. Behold, Shaul came following the oxen out of the field; and Shaul said, What ails the people that they weep? They told him the words of the men of Jabesh.
6. The Ruach of Elohim came mightily on Shaul when he heard those words, and his anger was kindled greatly.
7. They took a yoke of oxen, and cut them in pieces, and sent them throughout all the borders of Israel by the hand of messengers, saying, Whoever doesn't come forth after Shaul and after Shmuel, so shall it be done to their oxen. The dread of YHWH fell on the people, and they came out as one man.
8. He numbered them in Bezek; and the children of Israel were three hundred thousand, and the people of Yehudah thirty thousand.
9. They said to the messengers who came, Thus shall you tell the men of Jabesh Gilead, Tomorrow, by the time the sun is hot, you shall have deliverance. The messengers came and told the men of Jabesh; and they were glad.
10. Therefore the men of Jabesh said, Tomorrow we will come out to you, and you shall do with us all that seems good to you.
11. It was so on the next day, that Shaul put the people in three companies; and they came into the midst of the camp in the morning watch, and struck the Ammonites until the heat of the day: and it happened, that those who remained were scattered, so that no two of them were left together.
12. The people said to Shmuel, Who is the one who said, Shall Shaul reign over us? bring the men, that we may put them to death.
13. Shaul said, There shall not a person be put to death this day; for today YHWH has worked deliverance in Israel.
14. Then said Shmuel to the people, Come, and let us go to Gilgal, and renew the kingdom there.
15. All the people went to Gilgal; and there they made Shaul king before YHWH in Gilgal; and there they offered sacrifices of peace offerings before YHWH; and there Shaul and all the people of Israel rejoiced greatly.

1 Samuel 12
1. Shmuel said to all Israel, Behold, I have listened to your voice in all that you said to me, and have made a king over you.
2. Now, behold, the king walks before you; and I am old and gray-headed; and behold, my sons are with you: and I have walked before you from my youth to this day.
3. Here I am: witness against me before YHWH, and before his anointed: whose ox have I taken? or whose donkey have I taken? or whom have I defrauded? whom have I oppressed? or of whose hand have I taken a ransom to blind my eyes therewith? and I will restore it you.
4. They said, You have not defrauded us, nor oppressed us, neither have you taken anything of anyone's hand.
5. He said to them, YHWH is witness against you, and his anointed is witness this day, that you have not found anything in my hand. They said, He is witness.
6. Shmuel said to the people, It is YHWH who appointed Moshe and Aharon, and that brought your fathers up out of the land of Mitzrayim.
7. Now therefore stand still, that I may plead with you before YHWH concerning all the righteous acts of YHWH, which he did to you and to your fathers.
8. When Ya'akov was come into Mitzrayim, and your fathers cried to YHWH, then YHWH sent Moshe and Aharon, who brought forth your fathers out of Mitzrayim, and made them to dwell in this place.
9. But they forgot YHWH their God; and he sold them into the hand of Sisera, captain of the army of Hazor, and into the hand of the Philistines, and into the hand of the king of Moab; and they fought against them.
10. They cried to YHWH, and said, We have sinned, because we have forsaken YHWH, and have served the Baals and the Ashtaroth: but now deliver us out of the hand of our enemies, and we will serve you.
11. YHWH sent Jerubbaal, and Bedan, and Jephthah, and Shmuel, and delivered you out of the hand of your enemies on every side; and you lived in safety.
12. When you saw that Nahash the king of the children of Ammon came against you, you said to me, No, but a king shall reign over us; when YHWH your God was your king.
13. Now therefore see the king whom you have chosen, and whom you have asked for: and behold, YHWH has set a king over you.
14. If you will revere YHWH, and serve him, and listen to his voice, and not rebel against the commandment of YHWH, and both you and also the king who reigns over you are followers of YHWH your God, [well]:
15. but if you will not listen to the voice of YHWH, but rebel against the commandment of YHWH, then will the hand of YHWH be against you, as it was against your fathers.
16. Now therefore stand still and see this great thing, which YHWH will do before your eyes.
17. Isn't it wheat harvest today? I will call to YHWH, that he may send thunder and rain; and you shall know and see that your wickedness is great, which you have done in the sight of YHWH, in asking you a king.
18. So Shmuel called to YHWH; and YHWH sent thunder and rain that day: and all the people greatly revered YHWH and Shmuel.
19. All the people said to Shmuel, Pray for your servants to YHWH your God, that we not die; for we have added to all our sins [this] brokenness, to ask us a king.
20. Shmuel said to the people, "Don't be afraid; you have indeed done all this brokenness; yet don't turn aside from following YHWH, but serve YHWH with all your heart:
21. and don't turn aside; for [then would you go] after vain things which can't profit nor deliver, for they are vain.
22. For YHWH will not forsake his people for his great name's sake, because it has pleased YHWH to make you a people to himself.
23. Moreover as for me, far be it from me that I should sin against YHWH in ceasing to pray for you: but I will instruct you in the good and the right way.
24. Only revere YHWH, and serve him in truth with all your heart; for consider how great things he has done for you.
25. But if you shall still do wickedly, you shall be consumed, both you and your king."

1 Samuel 13
1. Shaul was [forty] years old when he began to reign; and when he had reigned two years over Israel,
2. Shaul chose him three thousand people of Israel, of which two thousand were with Shaul in Michmash and in the Mount of Beit El, and one thousand were with Yonatan in Gibeah of Binyamin: and the rest of the people they sent everyone to their tent.
3. Yonatan struck the garrison of the Philistines that was in Geba: and the Philistines heard of it. Shaul blew the trumpet throughout all the land, saying, Let the Hebrews hear.
4. All Israel heard say that Shaul had struck the garrison of the Philistines, and also that Israel was had in abomination with the Philistines. The people were gathered together after Shaul to Gilgal.
5. The Philistines assembled themselves together to fight with Israel, thirty thousand chariots, and six thousand horsemen, and people as the sand which is on the seashore in multitude: and they came up, and encamped in Michmash, eastward of Beth Aven.
6. When the people of Israel saw that they were in a strait (for the people were distressed), then the people did hide themselves in caves, and in thickets, and in rocks, and in coverts, and in pits.
7. Now some of the Hebrews had gone over the Yarden to the land of Gad and Gilead; but as for Shaul, he was yet in Gilgal, and all the people followed him trembling.
8. He stayed seven days, according to the set time that Shmuel [had appointed]: but Shmuel didn't come to Gilgal; and the people were scattered from him.
9. Shaul said, Bring here the burnt offering to me, and the peace offerings. He offered the burnt offering.
10. It came to pass that as soon as he had made an end of offering the burnt offering, behold, Shmuel came; and Shaul went out to meet him, that he might greet him.
11. Shmuel said, What have you done? Shaul said, Because I saw that the people were scattered from me, and that you didn't come within the days appointed, and that the Philistines assembled themselves together at Michmash;
12. therefore said I, Now will the Philistines come down on me to Gilgal, and I haven't entreated the favor of YHWH: I forced myself therefore, and offered the burnt offering.
13. Shmuel said to Shaul, You have done foolishly; you have not kept the commandment of YHWH your God, which he commanded you: for now would YHWH have established your kingdom on Israel forever.
14. But now your kingdom shall not continue: YHWH has sought him a person after their own heart, and YHWH has appointed him to be prince over their people, because you have not kept that which YHWH commanded you.
15. Shmuel arose, and got him up from Gilgal to Gibeah of Binyamin. Shaul numbered the people who were present with him, about six hundred men.
16. Shaul, and Yonatan his son, and the people who were present with them, abode in Geba of Binyamin: but the Philistines encamped in Michmash.
17. The spoilers came out of the camp of the Philistines in three companies: one company turned to the way that leads to Ophrah, to the land of Shual;
18. and another company turned the way to Beth Horon; and another company turned the way of the border that looks down on the valley of Zeboim toward the wilderness.
19. Now there was no smith found throughout all the land of Israel; for the Philistines said, Lest the Hebrews make them swords or spears:
20. but all the Israelites went down to the Philistines, to sharpen everyone their plowshare, mattock, axe, and sickle;
21. yet they had a file for the mattocks, and for the plowshares, and for the forks, and for the axes, and to set the goads.
22. So it came to pass in the day of battle, that there was neither sword nor spear found in the hand of any of the people who were with Shaul and Yonatan: but with Shaul and with Yonatan his son was there found.
23. The garrison of the Philistines went out to the pass of Michmash.

1 Samuel 14
1. Now it fell on a day, that Yonatan the son of Shaul said to the young person who bore their armor, Come, and let us go over to the Philistines' garrison, that is on yonder side. But he didn't tell his father.
2. Shaul abode in the uttermost part of Gibeah under the pomegranate tree which is in Migron: and the people who were with him were about six hundred men;
3. and Ahijah, the son of Ahitub, Ichabod's brother, the son of Phinehas, the son of Eli, the priest of YHWH in Shilo, wearing an ephod. The people didn't know that Yonatan was gone.
4. Between the passes, by which Yonatan sought to go over to the Philistines' garrison, there was a rocky crag on the one side, and a rocky crag on the other side: and the name of the one was Bozez, and the name of the other Seneh.
5. The one crag rose up on the north in front of Michmash, and the other on the south in front of Geba.
6. Yonatan said to the young person who bore their armor, Come, and let us go over to the garrison of these uncircumcised: it may be that YHWH will work for us; for there is no restraint to YHWH to save by many or by few.
7. His armor bearer said to him, Do all that is in your heart: turn you, behold, I am with you according to your heart.
8. Then said Yonatan, Behold, we will pass over to the men, and we will disclose ourselves to them.
9. If they say thus to us, Wait until we come to you; then we will stand still in our place, and will not go up to them.
10. But if they say thus, Come up to us; then we will go up; for YHWH has delivered them into our hand: and this shall be the sign to us.
11. Both of them disclosed themselves to the garrison of the Philistines: and the Philistines said, Behold, the Hebrews come forth out of the holes where they had hid themselves.
12. The men of the garrison answered Yonatan and his armor bearer, and said, Come up to us, and we will show you a thing. Yonatan said to his armor bearer, Come up after me; for YHWH has delivered them into the hand of Israel.
13. Yonatan climbed up on his hands and on his feet, and his armor bearer after him: and they fell before Yonatan; and his armor bearer killed them after him.
14. That first slaughter, which Yonatan and his armor bearer made, was about twenty men, within as it were half a furrow's length in an acre of land.
15. There was a trembling in the camp, in the field, and among all the people; the garrison, and the spoilers, they also trembled; and the earth quaked: so there was an exceeding great trembling.
16. The watchmen of Shaul in Gibeah of Binyamin looked; and behold, the multitude melted away, and they went [here] and there.
17. Then said Shaul to the people who were with him, Number now, and see who is gone from us. When they had numbered, behold, Yonatan and his armor bearer were not there.
18. Shaul said to Ahijah, Bring here the ark of Elohim. For the ark of Elohim was [there] at that time with the children of Israel.
19. It happened, while Shaul talked to the priest, that the tumult that was in the camp of the Philistines went on and increased: and Shaul said to the priest, Withdraw your hand.
20. Shaul and all the people who were with him were gathered together, and came to the battle: and behold, everyone's sword was against their fellow, [and there was] a very great confusion.
21. Now the Hebrews who were with the Philistines as before, and who went up with them into the camp, [from the country] round about, even they also [turned] to be with the Israelites who were with Shaul and Yonatan.
22. Likewise all the people of Israel who had hid themselves in the hill country of Efrayim, when they heard that the Philistines fled, even they also followed hard after them in the battle.
23. So YHWH saved Israel that day: and the battle passed over by Beth Aven.
24. The people of Israel were distressed that day; for Shaul had adjured the people, saying, Cursed be the one who eats any food until it be evening, and I be avenged on my enemies. So none of the people tasted food.
25. All the people came into the forest; and there was honey on the ground.
26. When the people were come to the forest, behold, the honey dropped: but no one put their hand to their mouth; for the people feared the oath.
27. But Yonatan didn't hear when his father charged the people with the oath: therefore he put forth the end of the rod who was in his hand, and dipped it in the honeycomb, and put his hand to his mouth; and his eyes were enlightened.
28. Then answered one of the people, and said, Your father directly charged the people with an oath, saying, Cursed be the one who eats food this day. The people were faint.
29. Then said Yonatan, My father has troubled the land. Please look how my eyes have been enlightened, because I tasted a little of this honey.
30. How much more, if haply the people had eaten freely today of the spoil of their enemies which they found? for now has there been no great slaughter among the Philistines.
31. They struck of the Philistines that day from Michmash to Aijalon. The people were very faint;
32. and the people flew on the spoil, and took sheep, and oxen, and calves, and killed them on the ground; and the people ate them with the blood.
33. Then they told Shaul, saying, Behold, the people sin against YHWH, in that they eat with the blood. He said, you have dealt treacherously: roll a great stone to me this day.
34. Shaul said, Disperse yourselves among the people, and tell them, Bring me here everyone their ox, and everyone their sheep, and kill them here, and eat; and don't sin against YHWH in eating with the blood. All the people brought everyone their ox with him that night, and killed them there.
35. Shaul built an altar to YHWH: the same was the first altar that he built to YHWH.
36. Shaul said, Let us go down after the Philistines by night, and take spoil among them until the morning light, and let us not leave a person of them. They said, Do whatever seems good to you. Then said the priest, Let us draw near here to Elohim.
37. Shaul asked counsel of Elohim, Shall I go down after the Philistines? will you deliver them into the hand of Israel? But he didn't answer him that day.
38. Shaul said, Draw near here, all you chiefs of the people; and know and see in which this sin has been this day.
39. For, as YHWH lives, who saves Israel, though it be in Yonatan my son, he shall surely die. But there was not a person among all the people who answered him.
40. Then said he to all Israel, Be you on one side, and I and Yonatan my son will be on the other side. The people said to Shaul, Do what seems good to you.
41. Therefore Shaul said to YHWH, the God of Israel, Show the right. Yonatan and Shaul were taken [by lot]; but the people escaped.
42. Shaul said, Cast [lots] between me and Yonatan my son. Yonatan was taken.
43. Then Shaul said to Yonatan, Tell me what you have done. Yonatan told him, and said, I did certainly taste a little honey with the end of the rod that was in my hand; and behold, I must die.
44. Shaul said, Elohim do so and more also; for you shall surely die, Yonatan.
45. The people said to Shaul, Shall Yonatan die, who has worked this great salvation in Israel? Far from it: as YHWH lives, there shall not one hair of his head fall to the ground; for he has worked with Elohim this day. So the people rescued Yonatan, that he didn't die.
46. Then Shaul went up from following the Philistines; and the Philistines went to their own place.
47. Now when Shaul had taken the kingdom over Israel, he fought against all his enemies on every side, against Moab, and against the children of Ammon, and against Edom, and against the kings of Zobah, and against the Philistines: and wherever he turned himself, he put [them] to the worse.
48. He did valiantly, and struck the Amalekites, and delivered Israel out of the hands of those who despoiled them.
49. Now the sons of Shaul were Yonatan, and Ishvi, and Malchishua; and the names of his two daughters were these: the name of the firstborn Merab, and the name of the younger Michal:
50. and the name of Shaul's wife was Ahinoam the daughter of Ahimaaz. The name of the captain of his army was Abner the son of Ner, Shaul's uncle.
51. Kish was the father of Shaul; and Ner the father of Abner was the son of Abiel.
52. There was sore war against the Philistines all the days of Shaul: and when Shaul saw any mighty man, or any valiant man, he took him to him.

1 Samuel 15
1. Shmuel said to Shaul, YHWH sent me to anoint you to be king over his people, over Israel: now therefore listen you to the voice of the words of YHWH.
2. Thus says YHWH of Armies, I have marked that which Amalek did to Israel, how he set himself against him in the way, when he came up out of Mitzrayim.
3. Now go and strike Amalek, and utterly destroy all that they have, and don't spare them; but kill both man and woman, infant and suckling, ox and sheep, camel and donkey.
4. Shaul summoned the people, and numbered them in Telaim, two hundred thousand footmen, and ten thousand people of Yehudah.
5. Shaul came to the city of Amalek, and laid wait in the valley.
6. Shaul said to the Kenites, Go, depart, get you down from among the Amalekites, lest I destroy you with them; for you shown kindness to all the children of Israel, when they came up out of Mitzrayim. So the Kenites departed from among the Amalekites.
7. Shaul struck the Amalekites, from Havilah as you go to Shur, that is before Mitzrayim.
8. He took Agag the king of the Amalekites alive, and utterly destroyed all the people with the edge of the sword.
9. But Shaul and the people spared Agag, and the best of the sheep, and of the oxen, and of the fatlings, and the lambs, and all that was good, and wouldn't utterly destroy them: but everything that was vile and refuse, that they destroyed utterly.
10. Then came the word of YHWH to Shmuel, saying,
11. It grieves me that I have set up Shaul to be king; for he is turned back from following me, and has not performed my commandments. Shmuel was angry; and he cried to YHWH all night.
12. Shmuel rose early to meet Shaul in the morning; and it was told Shmuel, saying, Shaul came to Carmel, and behold, he set him up a monument, and turned, and passed on, and went down to Gilgal.
13. Shmuel came to Shaul; and Shaul said to him, Blessed are you by YHWH: I have performed the commandment of YHWH.
14. Shmuel said, What means then this bleating of the sheep in my ears, and the lowing of the oxen which I hear?
15. Shaul said, They have brought them from the Amalekites: for the people spared the best of the sheep and of the oxen, to sacrifice to YHWH your God; and the rest we have utterly destroyed.
16. Then Shmuel said to Shaul, Stay, and I will tell you what YHWH has said to me this night. He said to him, Say on.
17. Shmuel said, "Though you were little in your own sight, weren't you made the head of the tribes of Israel? YHWH anointed you king over Israel;
18. and YHWH sent you on a journey, and said, 'Go, and utterly destroy the sinners the Amalekites, and fight against them until they are consumed.'
19. Why then didn't you obey the voice of YHWH, but flew on the spoil, and did what was broken in the sight of YHWH?"
20. Shaul said to Shmuel, Yes, I have obeyed the voice of YHWH, and have gone the way which YHWH sent me, and have brought Agag the king of Amalek, and have utterly destroyed the Amalekites.
21. But the people took of the spoil, sheep and oxen, the chief of the devoted things, to sacrifice to YHWH your God in Gilgal.
22. Shmuel said, Has YHWH as great delight in burnt offerings and sacrifices, as in obeying the voice of YHWH? Behold, to obey is better than sacrifice, and to listen than the fat of rams.
23. For rebellion is as the sin of witchcraft, and stubbornness is as idolatry and teraphim. Because you have rejected the word of YHWH, he has also rejected you from being king.
24. Shaul said to Shmuel, I have sinned; for I have transgressed the commandment of YHWH, and your words, because I feared the people, and obeyed their voice.
25. Now therefore, please pardon my sin, and turn again with me, that I may worship YHWH.
26. Shmuel said to Shaul, I will not return with you; for you have rejected the word of YHWH, and YHWH has rejected you from being king over Israel.
27. As Shmuel turned about to go away, [Shaul] laid hold on the skirt of his robe, and it tore.
28. Shmuel said to him, YHWH has torn the kingdom of Israel from you this day, and has given it to a neighbor of yours who is better than you.
29. Also the Strength of Israel will not lie nor relent; for they are not a person, that they should relent.
30. Then he said, I have sinned: yet honor me now, Please, before the elders of my people, and before Israel, and turn again with me, that I may worship YHWH your God.
31. So Shmuel turned again after Shaul; and Shaul worshiped YHWH.
32. Then said Shmuel, Bring you here to me Agag the king of the Amalekites. Agag came to him cheerfully. Agag said, Surely the bitterness of death is past.
33. Shmuel said, As your sword has made women childless, so shall your mother be childless among women. Shmuel hewed Agag in pieces before YHWH in Gilgal.
34. Then Shmuel went to Ramah; and Shaul went up to his house to Gibeah of Shaul.
35. Shmuel came no more to see Shaul until the day of his death; for Shmuel mourned for Shaul: and YHWH grieved that he had made Shaul king over Israel.

1 Samuel 16
1. YHWH said to Shmuel, How long will you mourn for Shaul, seeing I have rejected him from being king over Israel? fill your horn with oil, and go: I will send you to Yishai the Bethlehemite; for I have provided me a king among his sons.
2. Shmuel said, How can I go? if Shaul hear it, he will kill me. YHWH said, Take a heifer with you, and say, I am come to sacrifice to YHWH.
3. Call Yishai to the sacrifice, and I will show you what you shall do: and you shall anoint to me the one whom I name to you.
4. Shmuel did that which YHWH spoke, and came to Beit Lechem. The elders of the city came to meet him trembling, and said, Come you peaceably?
5. He said, Peaceably; I am come to sacrifice to YHWH: sanctify yourselves, and come with me to the sacrifice. He sanctified Yishai and his sons, and called them to the sacrifice.
6. It happened, when they had come, that he looked at Eliab, and said, Surely YHWH's anointed is before him.
7. But YHWH said to Shmuel, "Don't look on his face, or on the height of his stature; because I have rejected him: for [YHWH sees] not as man sees; for man looks at the outward appearance, but YHWH looks at the heart."
8. Then Yishai called Abinadab, and made him pass before Shmuel. He said, Neither has YHWH chosen this.
9. Then Yishai made Shammah to pass by. He said, Neither has YHWH chosen this.
10. Yishai made seven of his sons to pass before Shmuel. Shmuel said to Yishai, YHWH has not chosen these.
11. Shmuel said to Yishai, Are here all your children? He said, There remains yet the youngest, and behold, he is keeping the sheep. Shmuel said to Yishai, Send and get him; for we will not sit down until he come here.
12. He sent, and brought him in. Now he was ruddy, and withal of a beautiful face, and goodly to look on. YHWH said, Arise, anoint him; for this is he.
13. Then Shmuel took the horn of oil, and anointed him in the midst of his brothers: and the Ruach of YHWH came mightily on Dawid from that day forward. So Shmuel rose up, and went to Ramah.
14. Now the Ruach of YHWH departed from Shaul, and an troubling spirit from YHWH troubled him.
15. Shaul's servants said to him, See now, an troubling spirit from Elohim troubles you.
16. Let our lord now command your servants who are before you, to seek out a person who is a skillful player on the harp: and it shall happen, when the troubling spirit from Elohim is on you, that they shall play with their hand, and you shall be well.
17. Shaul said to their servants, Provide me now a person who can play well, and bring him to me.
18. Then answered one of the young people, and said, Behold, I have seen a son of Yishai the Bethlehemite, who is skillful in playing, and a mighty man of valor, and a warrior, and prudent in speech, and a comely person; and YHWH is with him.
19. Therefore Shaul sent messengers to Yishai, and said, Send me Dawid your son, who is with the sheep.
20. Yishai took a donkey loaded with bread, and a bottle of wine, and a kid, and sent them by Dawid his son to Shaul.
21. Dawid came to Shaul, and stood before him: and he loved him greatly; and he became his armor bearer.
22. Shaul sent to Yishai, saying, Please let Dawid stand before me; for he has found favor in my sight.
23. It happened, when the [brokenness] spirit from Elohim was on Shaul, that Dawid took the harp, and played with his hand: so Shaul was refreshed, and was well, and the troubling spirit departed from him.

1 Samuel 17
1. Now the Philistines gathered together their armies to battle; and they were gathered together at Socoh, which belongs to Yehudah, and encamped between Socoh and Azekah, in Ephesdammim.
2. Shaul and the people of Israel were gathered together, and encamped in the valley of Elah, and set the battle in array against the Philistines.
3. The Philistines stood on the mountain on the one side, and Israel stood on the mountain on the other side: and there was a valley between them.
4. There went out a champion out of the camp of the Philistines, named Goliath, of Gath, whose height was six cubits and a span.
5. He had a helmet of brass on his head, and he was clad with a coat of mail; and the weight of the coat was five thousand shekels of brass.
6. He had brass shin armor on his legs, and a javelin of brass between his shoulders.
7. The staff of his spear was like a weaver's beam; and his spear's head [weighed] six hundred shekels of iron: and his shield bearer went before him.
8. He stood and cried to the armies of Israel, and said to them, Why are you come out to set your battle in array? am I not a Philistine, and you servants to Shaul? choose you a person for you, and let him come down to me.
9. If he be able to fight with me, and kill me, then will we be your servants; but if I prevail against him, and kill him, then shall you be our servants, and serve us.
10. The Philistine said, I defy the armies of Israel this day; give me a person, that we may fight together.
11. When Shaul and all Israel heard those words of the Philistine, they were dismayed, and greatly afraid.
12. Now Dawid was the son of that Ephrathite of Beit Lechem Yehudah, whose name was Yishai; and they had eight sons: and the person was an old man in the days of Shaul, stricken [in years] among men.
13. The three eldest sons of Yishai had gone after Shaul to the battle: and the names of his three sons who went to the battle were Eliab the firstborn, and next to him Abinadab, and the third Shammah.
14. Dawid was the youngest; and the three eldest followed Shaul.
15. Now Dawid went back and forth from Shaul to feed his father's sheep at Beit Lechem.
16. The Philistine drew near morning and evening, and presented himself forty days.
17. Yishai said to Dawid his son, Take now for your brothers an ephah of this parched grain, and these ten loaves, and carry [them] quickly to the camp to your brothers;
18. and bring these ten cheeses to the captain of their thousand, and look how your brothers fare, and take their pledge.
19. Now Shaul, and they, and all the people of Israel, were in the valley of Elah, fighting with the Philistines.
20. Dawid rose up early in the morning, and left the sheep with a keeper, and took, and went, as Yishai had commanded him; and he came to the place of the wagons, as the army which was going forth to the fight shouted for the battle.
21. Israel and the Philistines put the battle in array, army against army.
22. Dawid left his baggage in the hand of the keeper of the baggage, and ran to the army, and came and greeted his brothers.
23. As he talked with them, behold, there came up the champion, the Philistine of Gath, Goliath by name, out of the ranks of the Philistines, and spoke according to the same words: and Dawid heard them.
24. All the people of Israel, when they saw the person, fled from him, and were sore afraid.
25. The people of Israel said, Have you seen this man who is come up? surely to defy Israel is they come up: and it shall be, that the one who kills him, the king will enrich him with great riches, and will give him their daughter, and make their father's house free in Israel.
26. Dawid spoke to the people who stood by him, saying, What shall be done to the one who kills this Philistine, and takes away the reproach from Israel? for who is this uncircumcised Philistine, that he should defy the armies of the living Elohim?
27. The people answered him after this manner, saying, So shall it be done to the one who kills him.
28. Eliab his eldest brother heard when he spoke to the men; and Eliab's anger was kindled against Dawid, and he said, Why are you come down? and with whom have you left those few sheep in the wilderness? I know your pride, and the naughtiness of your heart; for you have come down that you might see the battle.
29. Dawid said, What have I now done? Is there not a cause?
30. He turned away from him toward another, and spoke after the same manner: and the people answered him again after the former manner.
31. When the words were heard which Dawid spoke, they rehearsed them before Shaul; and he sent for him.
32. Dawid said to Shaul, Let no one's heart fail because of him; your servant will go and fight with this Philistine.
33. Shaul said to Dawid, You are not able to go against this Philistine to fight with him; for you are but a youth, and they a warrior from their youth.
34. Dawid said to Shaul, Your servant was keeping his father's sheep; and when there came a lion, or a bear, and took a lamb out of the flock,
35. I went out after him, and struck him, and delivered it out of his mouth; and when he arose against me, I caught him by his beard, and struck him, and killed him.
36. Your servant struck both the lion and the bear: and this uncircumcised Philistine shall be as one of them, seeing he has defied the armies of the living Elohim.
37. Dawid said, YHWH who delivered me out of the paw of the lion, and out of the paw of the bear, he will deliver me out of the hand of this Philistine. Shaul said to Dawid, Go, and YHWH shall be with you.
38. Shaul clad Dawid with his clothing, and he put a helmet of brass on his head, and he clad him with a coat of mail.
39. Dawid girded his sword on his clothing, and he tried to go; for he had not proved it. Dawid said to Shaul, I can't go with these; for I have not proved them. Dawid put them off him.
40. He took his staff in his hand, and chose him five smooth stones out of the brook, and put them in the shepherd's bag which he had, even in his wallet; and his sling was in his hand: and he drew near to the Philistine.
41. The Philistine came on and drew near to Dawid; and the one who bore the shield went before him.
42. When the Philistine looked about, and saw Dawid, he disdained him; for he was but a youth, and ruddy, and withal of a fair face.
43. The Philistine said to Dawid, Am I a dog, that you come to me with sticks? The Philistine cursed Dawid by his gods.
44. The Philistine said to Dawid, Come to me, and I will give your flesh to the birds of the heavens, and to the animals of the field.
45. Then said Dawid to the Philistine, You come to me with a sword, and with a spear, and with a javelin: but I come to you in the name of YHWH of Armies, the God of the armies of Israel, whom you have defied.
46. This day will YHWH deliver you into my hand; and I will strike you, and take your head from off you; and I will give the dead bodies of the army of the Philistines this day to the birds of the heavens, and to the wild animals of the earth; that all the earth may know that there is an Elohim in Israel,
47. and that all this assembly may know that YHWH doesn't save with sword and spear: for the battle is YHWH's, and he will give you into our hand.
48. It happened, when the Philistine arose, and came and drew near to meet Dawid, that Dawid hurried, and ran toward the army to meet the Philistine.
49. Dawid put his hand in his bag, and took there a stone, and slang it, and struck the Philistine in his forehead; and the stone sank into his forehead, and he fell on his face to the earth.
50. So Dawid prevailed over the Philistine with a sling and with a stone, and struck the Philistine, and killed him; but there was no sword in the hand of Dawid.
51. Then Dawid ran, and stood over the Philistine, and took his sword, and drew it out of the sheath of it, and killed him, and cut off his head therewith. When the Philistines saw that their champion was dead, they fled.
52. The people of Israel and of Yehudah arose, and shouted, and pursued the Philistines, until you come to Gai, and to the gates of Ekron. The wounded of the Philistines fell down by the way to Shaaraim, even to Gath, and to Ekron.
53. The children of Israel returned from chasing after the Philistines, and they plundered their camp.
54. Dawid took the head of the Philistine, and brought it to Yerushalayim; but he put his armor in his tent.
55. When Shaul saw Dawid go forth against the Philistine, he said to Abner, the captain of the army, Abner, whose son is this youth? Abner said, As your soul lives, O king, I can't tell.
56. The king said, "Inquire whose son the young person is!"
57. As Dawid returned from the slaughter of the Philistine, Abner took him, and brought him before Shaul with the head of the Philistine in his hand.
58. Shaul said to him, Whose son are you, you young person? Dawid answered, I am the son of your servant Yishai the Bethlehemite.

1 Samuel 18
1. It happened, when he had made an end of speaking to Shaul, that the soul of Yonatan was knit with the soul of Dawid, and Yonatan loved him as his own soul.
2. Shaul took him that day, and would let him go no more home to his father's house.
3. Then Yonatan and Dawid made a covenant, because he loved him as his own soul.
4. Yonatan stripped himself of the robe that was on him, and gave it to Dawid, and his clothing, even to his sword, and to his bow, and to his sash.
5. Dawid went out wherever Shaul sent him, [and] behaved himself wisely: and Shaul set him over the men of war, and it was good in the sight of all the people, and also in the sight of Shaul's servants.
6. It happened as they came, when Dawid returned from the slaughter of the Philistine, that the women came out of all the cities of Israel, singing and dancing, to meet king Shaul, with tambourines, with joy, and with instruments of music.
7. The women sang one to another as they played, and said, Shaul has slain his thousands, Dawid his ten thousands.
8. Shaul was very angry, and this saying displeased him; and he said, They have ascribed to Dawid ten thousands, and to me they have ascribed but thousands: and what can he have more but the kingdom?
9. Shaul eyed Dawid from that day and forward.
10. It happened on the next day, that an troubling spirit from Elohim came mightily on Shaul, and he prophesied in the midst of the house: and Dawid played with his hand, as he did day by day. Shaul had his spear in his hand;
11. and Shaul cast the spear; for he said, I will strike Dawid even to the wall. Dawid avoided out of his presence twice.
12. Shaul was afraid of Dawid, because YHWH was with him, and was departed from Shaul.
13. Therefore Shaul removed him from him, and made him his captain over a thousand; and he went out and came in before the people.
14. Dawid behaved himself wisely in all his ways; and YHWH was with him.
15. When Shaul saw that he behaved himself very wisely, he stood in awe of him.
16. But all Israel and Yehudah loved Dawid; for he went out and came in before them.
17. Shaul said to Dawid, Behold, my elder daughter Merab, her will I give you as wife: only be valiant for me, and fight YHWH's battles. For Shaul said, Don't let my hand be on him, but let the hand of the Philistines be on him.
18. Dawid said to Shaul, Who am I, and what is my life, [or] my father's family in Israel, that I should be son-in-law to the king?
19. But it happened at the time when Merab, Shaul's daughter, should have been given to Dawid, that she was given to Adriel the Meholathite as wife.
20. Michal, Shaul's daughter, loved Dawid: and they told Shaul, and the thing pleased him.
21. Shaul said, I will give her to him, that she may be a snare to him, and that the hand of the Philistines may be against him. Therefore Shaul said to Dawid, You shall this day be my son-in-law a second time.
22. Shaul commanded his servants, [saying], Commune with Dawid secretly, and say, Behold, the king has delight in you, and all his servants love you: now therefore be the king's son-in-law.
23. Shaul's servants spoke those words in the ears of Dawid. Dawid said, Seems it to you a light thing to be the king's son-in-law, seeing that I am a poor man, and lightly esteemed?
24. The servants of Shaul told him, saying, On this manner spoke Dawid.
25. Shaul said, Thus shall you tell Dawid, The king desires no dowry except one hundred foreskins of the Philistines, to be avenged of the king's enemies. Now Shaul thought to make Dawid fall by the hand of the Philistines.
26. When his servants told Dawid these words, it pleased Dawid well to be the king's son-in-law. The days were not expired;
27. and Dawid arose and went, he and his men, and killed of the Philistines two hundred men; and Dawid brought their foreskins, and they gave them in full number to the king, that he might be the king's son-in-law. Shaul gave him Michal his daughter as wife.
28. Shaul saw and knew that YHWH was with Dawid; and Michal, Shaul's daughter, loved him.
29. Shaul was yet the more afraid of Dawid; and Shaul was Dawid's enemy continually.
30. Then the princes of the Philistines went forth: and it happened, as often as they went forth, that Dawid behaved himself more wisely than all the servants of Shaul; so that his name was much set by.

1 Samuel 19
1. Shaul spoke to Yonatan his son, and to all his servants, that they should kill Dawid. But Yonatan, Shaul's son, delighted much in Dawid.
2. Yonatan told Dawid, saying, Shaul my father seeks to kill you: now therefore, please take care of yourself in the morning, and live in a secret place, and hide yourself:
3. and I will go out and stand beside my father in the field where you are, and I will commune with my father of you; and if I see anything, I will tell you.
4. Yonatan spoke good of Dawid to Shaul his father, and said to him, Don't let the king sin against his servant, against Dawid; because he has not sinned against you, and because his works have been very good toward you:
5. for he put his life in his hand, and struck the Philistine, and YHWH worked a great victory for all Israel: you saw it, and did rejoice; why then will you sin against innocent blood, to kill Dawid without a cause?
6. Shaul listened to the voice of Yonatan: and Shaul swore, As YHWH lives, he shall not be put to death.
7. Yonatan called Dawid, and Yonatan showed him all those things. Yonatan brought Dawid to Shaul, and he was in his presence, as before.
8. There was war again: and Dawid went out, and fought with the Philistines, and killed them with a great slaughter; and they fled before him.
9. An troubling spirit from YHWH was on Shaul, as he sat in his house with his spear in his hand; and Dawid was playing with his hand.
10. Shaul sought to strike Dawid even to the wall with the spear; but he slipped away out of Shaul's presence, and he struck the spear into the wall: and Dawid fled, and escaped that night.
11. Shaul sent messengers to Dawid's house, to watch him, and to kill him in the morning: and Michal, Dawid's wife, told him, saying, If you don't save your life tonight, tomorrow you will be slain.
12. So Michal let Dawid down through the window: and he went, and fled, and escaped.
13. Michal took the teraphim, and laid it in the bed, and put a pillow of goats' [hair] at the head of it, and covered it with the clothes.
14. When Shaul sent messengers to take Dawid, she said, He is sick.
15. Shaul sent the messengers to see Dawid, saying, Bring him up to me in the bed, that I may kill him.
16. When the messengers came in, behold, the teraphim was in the bed, with the pillow of goats' [hair] at the head of it.
17. Shaul said to Michal, Why have you deceived me thus, and let my enemy go, so that he is escaped? Michal answered Shaul, He said to me, Let me go; why should I kill you?
18. Now Dawid fled, and escaped, and came to Shmuel to Ramah, and told him all that Shaul had done to him. He and Shmuel went and lived in Naioth.
19. It was told Shaul, saying, Behold, Dawid is at Naioth in Ramah.
20. Shaul sent messengers to take Dawid: and when they saw the company of the prophets prophesying, and Shmuel standing as head over them, the Ruach of Elohim came on the messengers of Shaul, and they also prophesied.
21. When it was told Shaul, he sent other messengers, and they also prophesied. Shaul sent messengers again the third time, and they also prophesied.
22. Then went he also to Ramah, and came to the great well that is in Secu: and he asked and said, Where are Shmuel and Dawid? One said, Behold, they are at Naioth in Ramah.
23. He went there to Naioth in Ramah: and the Ruach of Elohim came on him also, and he went on, and prophesied, until he came to Naioth in Ramah.
24. He also stripped off his clothes, and he also prophesied before Shmuel, and lay down naked all that day and all that night. Therefore they say, "Is Shaul also among the prophets?"

1 Samuel 20
1. Dawid fled from Naioth in Ramah, and came and said before Yonatan, "What have I done? What is my iniquity?" and "What is my sin before your father, that he seeks my life?"
2. He said to him, "Far from it; you shall not die: behold, my father does nothing either great or small, but that he discloses it to me; and why should my father hide this thing from me? It is not so."
3. Dawid swore moreover, and said, "Your father knows well that I have found favor in your eyes; and he says, 'Don't let Yonatan know this, lest he be grieved:' but truly as YHWH lives, and as your soul lives, there is but a step between me and death."
4. Then said Yonatan to Dawid, "Whatever your soul desires, I will even do it for you."
5. Dawid said to Yonatan, "Behold, tomorrow is the new moon, and I should not fail to dine with the king; but let me go, that I may hide myself in the field to the third day at evening.
6. If your father miss me at all, then say, 'Dawid earnestly asked leave of me that he might run to Beit Lechem his city; for it is the yearly sacrifice there for all the family.'
7. If he says, 'It is well;' your servant shall have peace: but if he be angry, then know that brokenness is determined by him.
8. Therefore deal kindly with your servant; for you have brought your servant into a covenant of YHWH with you: but if there be in me iniquity, kill me yourself; for why should you bring me to your father?"
9. Yonatan said, "Far be it from you; for if I should at all know that brokenness were determined by my father to come on you, then wouldn't I tell you that?"
10. Then said Dawid to Yonatan, "Who shall tell me if perchance your father answer you roughly?"
11. Yonatan said to Dawid, "Come, and let us go out into the field." They both went out into the field.
12. Yonatan said to Dawid, "YHWH, the God of Israel, [be witness]: when I have sounded my father about this time tomorrow, [or] the third day, behold, if there be good toward Dawid, shall I not then send to you, and disclose it to you?
13. YHWH do so to Yonatan, and more also, should it please my father to do you brokenness, if I don't disclose it to you, and send you away, that you may go in peace: and YHWH be with you, as he has been with my father.
14. You shall not only while yet I live show me the loving kindness of YHWH, that I not die;
15. but also you shall not cut off your kindness from my house forever; no, not when YHWH has cut off the enemies of Dawid everyone from the surface of the earth."
16. So Yonatan made a covenant with the house of Dawid, [saying], YHWH will require it at the hand of Dawid's enemies.
17. Yonatan caused Dawid to swear again, for the love that he had to him; for he loved him as he loved his own soul.
18. Then Yonatan said to him, Tomorrow is the new moon: and you will be missed, because your seat will be empty.
19. When you have stayed three days, you shall go down quickly, and come to the place where you did hide yourself when the business was in hand, and shall remain by the stone Ezel.
20. I will shoot three arrows on the side of it, as though I shot at a mark.
21. Behold, I will send the boy, [saying], Go, find the arrows. If I tell the boy, Behold, the arrows are on this side of you; take them, and come; for there is peace to you and no hurt, as YHWH lives.
22. But if I say thus to the boy, Behold, the arrows are beyond you; go your way; for YHWH has sent you away.
23. As touching the matter which you and I have spoken of, behold, YHWH is between you and me forever.
24. So Dawid hid himself in the field: and when the new moon was come, the king sat him down to eat food.
25. The king sat on his seat, as at other times, even on the seat by the wall; and Yonatan stood up, and Abner sat by Shaul's side: but Dawid's place was empty.
26. Nevertheless Shaul didn't say anything that day: for he thought, Something has happened to him. He is not clean. Surely he is not clean.
27. It happened on the next day after the new moon, [which was] the second [day], that Dawid's place was empty: and Shaul said to Yonatan his son, Why doesn't the son of Yishai come to meat, neither yesterday, nor today?
28. Yonatan answered Shaul, Dawid earnestly asked leave of me to go to Beit Lechem:
29. and he said, Please let me go, for our family has a sacrifice in the city; and my brother, he has commanded me [to be there]: and now, if I have found favor in your eyes, let me get away, I pray you, and see my brothers. Therefore he is not come to the king's table.
30. Then Shaul's anger was kindled against Yonatan, and he said to him, You son of a perverse rebellious woman, don't I know that you have chosen the son of Yishai to your own shame, and to the shame of your mother's nakedness?
31. For as long as the son of Yishai lives on the earth, you shall not be established, nor your kingdom. Therefore now send and bring him to me, for he shall surely die.
32. Yonatan answered Shaul his father, and said to him, "Why should he be put to death? What has he done?"
33. Shaul cast his spear at him to strike him. By this Yonatan knew that his father was determined to put Dawid to death.
34. So Yonatan arose from the table in fierce anger, and ate no food the second day of the month; for he was grieved for Dawid, because his father had done him shame.
35. It happened in the morning, that Yonatan went out into the field at the time appointed with Dawid, and a little boy with him.
36. He said to his boy, Run, find now the arrows which I shoot. As the boy ran, he shot an arrow beyond him.
37. When the boy was come to the place of the arrow which Yonatan had shot, Yonatan cried after the boy, and said, Isn't the arrow beyond you?
38. Yonatan cried after the boy, Go fast! Hurry! Don't delay! Yonatan's boy gathered up the arrows, and came to his master.
39. But the boy didn't know anything: only Yonatan and Dawid knew the matter.
40. Yonatan gave his weapons to his boy, and said to him, Go, carry them to the city.
41. As soon as the boy was gone, Dawid arose out of [a place] toward the South, and fell on his face to the ground, and bowed himself three times: and they kissed one another, and wept one with another, until Dawid exceeded.
42. Yonatan said to Dawid, Go in peace, because we have sworn both of us in the name of YHWH, saying, YHWH shall be between me and you, and between my seed and your seed, forever. He arose and departed: and Yonatan went into the city.

1 Samuel 21
1. Then came Dawid to Nob to Ahimelech the priest: and Ahimelech came to meet Dawid trembling, and said to him, Why are you alone, and no one with you?
2. Dawid said to Ahimelech the priest, The king has commanded me a business, and has said to me, Let no one know anything of the business about which I send you, and what I have commanded you: and I have appointed the young people to such and such a place.
3. Now therefore what is under your hand? give me five loaves of bread in my hand, or whatever there is present.
4. The priest answered Dawid, and said, There is no common bread under my hand, but there is holy bread; if only the young people have kept themselves from women.
5. Dawid answered the priest, and said to him, Of a truth women have been kept from us about these three days; when I came out, the vessels of the young people were holy, though it was but a common journey; how much more then today shall their vessels be holy?
6. So the priest gave him holy [bread]; for there was no bread there but the show bread, that was taken from before YHWH, to put hot bread in the day when it was taken away.
7. Now a certain man of the servants of Shaul was there that day, detained before YHWH; and his name was Doeg the Edomite, the best of the herdsmen who belonged to Shaul.
8. Dawid said to Ahimelech, Isn't there here under your hand spear or sword? for I have neither brought my sword nor my weapons with me, because the king's business required haste.
9. The priest said, The sword of Goliath the Philistine, whom you killed in the valley of Elah, behold, it is here wrapped in a cloth behind the ephod: if you will take that, take it; for there is no other except that here. Dawid said, There is none like that; give it me.
10. Dawid arose, and fled that day for fear of Shaul, and went to Achish the king of Gath.
11. The servants of Achish said to him, "Isn't this Dawid the king of the land? Didn't they sing one to another about him in dances, saying, 'Shaul has slain his thousands, Dawid his ten thousands?'"
12. Dawid laid up these words in his heart, and was very afraid of Achish the king of Gath.
13. He changed his behavior before them, and feigned himself mad in their hands, and scrabbled on the doors of the gate, and let his spittle fall down on his beard.
14. Then said Achish to their servants, Look, you see the man is mad; why then have you brought him to me?
15. Do I lack madmen, that you have brought this fellow to play the madman in my presence? shall this fellow come into my house?

1 Samuel 22
1. Dawid therefore departed there, and escaped to the cave of Adullam: and when his brothers and all his father's house heard it, they went down there to him.
2. Everyone who was in distress, and everyone who was in debt, and everyone who was discontented, gathered themselves to him; and he became captain over them: and there were with him about four hundred men.
3. Dawid went there to Mizpeh of Moab: and he said to the king of Moab, Please let my father and my mother come forth, [and be] with you, until I know what Elohim will do for me.
4. He brought them before the king of Moab: and they lived with him all the while that Dawid was in the stronghold.
5. The prophet Gad said to Dawid, Don't stay in the stronghold; depart, and get you into the land of Yehudah. Then Dawid departed, and came into the forest of Hereth.
6. Shaul heard that Dawid was discovered, and the people who were with him: now Shaul was sitting in Gibeah, under the tamarisk tree in Ramah, with his spear in his hand, and all his servants were standing about him.
7. Shaul said to his servants who stood about him, Hear now, you Benjamites; will the son of Yishai give everyone of you fields and vineyards, will they make you all captains of thousands and captains of hundreds,
8. that all of you have conspired against me, and there is none who discloses to me when my son makes a league with the son of Yishai, and there is none of you who is sorry for me, or discloses to me that my son has stirred up my servant against me, to lie in wait, as at this day?
9. Then answered Doeg the Edomite, who stood by the servants of Shaul, and said, I saw the son of Yishai coming to Nob, to Ahimelech the son of Ahitub.
10. He inquired of YHWH for him, and gave him food, and gave him the sword of Goliath the Philistine.
11. Then the king sent to call Ahimelech the priest, the son of Ahitub, and all his father's house, the priests who were in Nob: and they came all of them to the king.
12. Shaul said, Hear now, you son of Ahitub. He answered, Here I am, my lord.
13. Shaul said to him, Why have you conspired against me, you and the son of Yishai, in that you have given him bread, and a sword, and have inquired of Elohim for him, that he should rise against me, to lie in wait, as at this day?
14. Then Ahimelech answered the king, and said, Who among all your servants is so faithful as Dawid, who is the king's son-in-law, and is taken into your council, and is honorable in your house?
15. Have I today begun to inquire of Elohim for him? be it far from me: don't let the king impute anything to his servant, nor to all the house of my father; for your servant knows nothing of all this, less or more.
16. The king said, You shall surely die, Ahimelech, you, and all your father's house.
17. The king said to the guard who stood about him, Turn, and kill the priests of YHWH; because their hand also is with Dawid, and because they knew that he fled, and didn't disclose it to me. But the servants of the king wouldn't put forth their hand to fall on the priests of YHWH.
18. The king said to Doeg, Turn you, and fall on the priests. Doeg the Edomite turned, and he fell on the priests, and he killed on that day eighty-five persons who wore a linen ephod.
19. Nob, the city of the priests, struck he with the edge of the sword, both men and women, children and nursing babies, and oxen and donkeys and sheep, with the edge of the sword.
20. One of the sons of Ahimelech, the son of Ahitub, named Abiathar, escaped, and fled after Dawid.
21. Abiathar told Dawid that Shaul had slain YHWH's priests.
22. Dawid said to Abiathar, I knew on that day, when Doeg the Edomite was there, that he would surely tell Shaul: I have occasioned [the death] of all the persons of your father's house.
23. Abide you with me, don't be afraid; for the one who seeks my life seeks your life: for with me you shall be in safeguard.

1 Samuel 23
1. They told Dawid, saying, Behold, the Philistines are fighting against Keilah, and are robbing the threshing floors.
2. Therefore Dawid inquired of YHWH, saying, Shall I go and strike these Philistines? YHWH said to Dawid, Go, and strike the Philistines, and save Keilah.
3. Dawid's men said to him, Behold, we are afraid here in Yehudah: how much more then if we go to Keilah against the armies of the Philistines?
4. Then Dawid inquired of YHWH yet again. YHWH answered him, and said, Arise, go down to Keilah; for I will deliver the Philistines into your hand.
5. Dawid and his men went to Keilah, and fought with the Philistines, and brought away their livestock, and killed them with a great slaughter. So Dawid saved the inhabitants of Keilah.
6. It happened, when Abiathar the son of Ahimelech fled to Dawid to Keilah, that he came down with an ephod in his hand.
7. It was told Shaul that Dawid was come to Keilah. Shaul said, Elohim has delivered him into my hand; for he is shut in, by entering into a town that has gates and bars.
8. Shaul summoned all the people to war, to go down to Keilah, to besiege Dawid and his men.
9. Dawid knew that Shaul was devising mischief against him; and he said to Abiathar the priest, Bring here the ephod.
10. Then said Dawid, O YHWH, the God of Israel, your servant has surely heard that Shaul seeks to come to Keilah, to destroy the city for my sake.
11. Will the men of Keilah deliver me up into his hand? will Shaul come down, as your servant has heard? YHWH, the God of Israel, I beg you, tell your servant. YHWH said, He will come down.
12. Then said Dawid, Will the men of Keilah deliver up to me and my men into the hand of Shaul? YHWH said, They will deliver you up.
13. Then Dawid and his men, who were about six hundred, arose and departed out of Keilah, and went wherever they could go. It was told Shaul that Dawid was escaped from Keilah; and he gave up going there.
14. Dawid abode in the wilderness in the strongholds, and remained in the hill country in the wilderness of Ziph. Shaul sought him every day, but Elohim didn't deliver him into his hand.
15. Dawid saw that Shaul had come out to seek his life: and Dawid was in the wilderness of Ziph in the wood.
16. Yonatan, Shaul's son, arose, and went to Dawid into the wood, and strengthened his hand in Elohim.
17. He said to him, Don't be afraid; for the hand of Shaul my father shall not find you; and you shall be king over Israel, and I shall be next to you; and that also Shaul my father knows.
18. They two made a covenant before YHWH: and Dawid abode in the wood, and Yonatan went to his house.
19. Then came up the Ziphites to Shaul to Gibeah, saying, Doesn't Dawid hide himself with us in the strongholds in the wood, in the hill of Hachilah, which is on the south of the desert?
20. Now therefore, O king, come down, according to all the desire of your soul to come down; and our part shall be to deliver him up into the king's hand.
21. Shaul said, Blessed be you of YHWH; for you have had compassion on me.
22. Please go make yet more sure, and know and see his place where his haunt is, [and] who has seen him there; for it is told me that he deals very subtly.
23. See therefore, and take knowledge of all the lurking places where he hides himself, and come you again to me of a certainty, and I will go with you: and it shall happen, if he be in the land, that I will search him out among all the thousands of Yehudah.
24. They arose, and went to Ziph before Shaul: but Dawid and his men were in the wilderness of Maon, in the Arabah on the south of the desert.
25. Shaul and his men went to seek him. When Dawid was told, he went down to the rock, and stayed in the wilderness of Maon. When Shaul heard [that], he pursued after Dawid in the wilderness of Maon.
26. Shaul went on this side of the mountain, and Dawid and his men on that side of the mountain: and Dawid made haste to get away for fear of Shaul; for Shaul and his men compassed Dawid and his men round about to take them.
27. But there came a messenger to Shaul, saying, Haste you, and come; for the Philistines have made a raid on the land.
28. So Shaul returned from pursuing after Dawid, and went against the Philistines: therefore they called that place Sela Hammahlekoth.
29. Dawid went up from there, and lived in the strongholds of En Gedi.

1 Samuel 24
1. It happened, when Shaul was returned from following the Philistines, that it was told him, saying, Behold, Dawid is in the wilderness of En Gedi.
2. Then Shaul took three thousand chosen men out of all Israel, and went to seek Dawid and his men on the rocks of the wild goats.
3. He came to the sheep pens by the way, where was a cave; and Shaul went in to relieve himself. Now Dawid and his men were abiding in the innermost parts of the cave.
4. The men of Dawid said to him, Behold, the day of which YHWH said to you, Behold, I will deliver your enemy into your hand, and you shall do to him as it shall seem good to you. Then Dawid arose, and cut off the skirt of Shaul's robe secretly.
5. It happened afterward, that Dawid's heart struck him, because he had cut off Shaul's skirt.
6. He said to his men, YHWH forbid that I should do this thing to my lord, YHWH's anointed, to put forth my hand against him, seeing he is YHWH's anointed.
7. So Dawid checked his men with these words, and didn't allow them to rise against Shaul. Shaul rose up out of the cave, and went on his way.
8. Dawid also arose afterward, and went out of the cave, and cried after Shaul, saying, My lord the king. When Shaul looked behind him, Dawid bowed with his face to the earth, and did obeisance.
9. Dawid said to Shaul, Why listen you to people's words, saying, Behold, Dawid seeks your hurt?
10. Behold, this day your eyes have seen how that YHWH had delivered you today into my hand in the cave: and some bade me kill you; but [my eye] spared you; and I said, I will not put forth my hand against my lord; for he is YHWH's anointed.
11. Moreover, my father, behold, yes, see the skirt of your robe in my hand; for in that I cut off the skirt of your robe, and didn't kill you, know you and see that there is neither brokenness nor disobedience in my hand, and I have not sinned against you, though you hunt after my life to take it.
12. YHWH judge between me and you, and YHWH avenge me of you; but my hand shall not be on you.
13. As says the proverb of the ancients, Out of the wicked comes forth wickedness; but my hand shall not be on you.
14. After whom is the king of Israel come out? after whom do you pursue? after a dead dog, after a flea.
15. YHWH therefore be judge, and give sentence between me and you, and see, and plead my cause, and deliver me out of your hand.
16. It came to pass, when Dawid had made an end of speaking these words to Shaul, that Shaul said, Is this your voice, my son Dawid? Shaul lifted up his voice, and wept.
17. He said to Dawid, You are more righteous than I; for you have rendered to me good, whereas I have rendered to you brokenness.
18. You have declared this day how that you have dealt well with me, because when YHWH had delivered me up into your hand, you didn't kill me.
19. For if someone finds their enemy, will they let him go away unharmed? Therefore may YHWH reward you good for that which you have done to me this day.
20. Now, behold, I know that you shall surely be king, and that the kingdom of Israel shall be established in your hand.
21. Swear now therefore to me by YHWH, that you will not cut off my seed after me, and that you will not destroy my name out of my father's house.
22. Dawid swore to Shaul. Shaul went home; but Dawid and his men got them up to the stronghold.

1 Samuel 25
1. Shmuel died; and all Israel gathered themselves together, and lamented him, and buried him in his house at Ramah. Dawid arose, and went down to the wilderness of Paran.
2. There was a person in Maon, whose possessions were in Carmel; and the person was very great, and they had three thousand sheep, and a thousand goats: and they were shearing their sheep in Carmel.
3. Now the name of the person was Nabal; and the name of his wife Abigail; and the woman was of good understanding, and of a beautiful face: but the person was churlish and brokenness in their doings; and he was of the house of Kalev.
4. Dawid heard in the wilderness that Nabal was shearing his sheep.
5. Dawid sent ten young people, and Dawid said to the young people, Go up to Carmel, and go to Nabal, and greet him in my name:
6. and thus shall you tell the one who lives [in prosperity], Peace be to you, and peace be to your house, and peace be to all that you have.
7. Now I have heard that you have shearers: your shepherds have now been with us, and we did them no hurt, neither was there anything missing to them, all the while they were in Carmel.
8. Ask your young people, and they will tell you: therefore let the young people find favor in your eyes; for we come in a good day. Please give whatever comes to your hand, to your servants, and to your son Dawid.
9. When Dawid's young people came, they spoke to Nabal according to all those words in the name of Dawid, and ceased.
10. Nabal answered Dawid's servants, and said, Who is Dawid? and who is the son of Yishai? there are many servants who break away from their masters these days.
11. Shall I then take my bread, and my water, and my meat that I have killed for my shearers, and give it to people who I don't know where they come from?
12. So Dawid's young people turned on their way, and went back, and came and told him according to all these words.
13. Dawid said to their men, Gird you on everyone their sword. They girded on everyone their sword; and Dawid also girded on his sword: and there went up after Dawid about four hundred men; and two hundred abode by the baggage.
14. But one of the young people told Abigail, Nabal's wife, saying, Behold, Dawid sent messengers out of the wilderness to Greet our master; and he railed at them.
15. But the men were very good to us, and we were not hurt, neither missed we anything, as long as we went with them, when we were in the fields:
16. they were a wall to us both by night and by day, all the while we were with them keeping the sheep.
17. Now therefore know and consider what you will do; for brokenness is determined against our master, and against all his house: for he is such a worthless fellow that one can't speak to him.
18. Then Abigail made haste, and took two hundred loaves, and two bottles of wine, and five sheep ready dressed, and five measures of parched grain, and one hundred clusters of raisins, and two hundred cakes of figs, and laid them on donkeys.
19. She said to her young people, Go on before me; behold, I come after you. But she didn't tell her husband, Nabal.
20. It was so, as she rode on her donkey, and came down by the covert of the mountain, that behold, Dawid and his men came down toward her; and she met them.
21. Now Dawid had said, Surely in vain have I kept all that this fellow has in the wilderness, so that nothing was missed of all that pertained to him: and he has returned me brokenness for good.
22. Elohim do so to the enemies of Dawid, and more also, if I leave of all that belongs to him by the morning light so much as one who urinates on a wall.
23. When Abigail saw Dawid, she hurried, and alighted from her donkey, and fell before Dawid on her face, and bowed herself to the ground.
24. She fell at his feet, and said, On me, my lord, on me be the iniquity; and please let your handmaid speak in your ears. Hear the words of your handmaid.
25. Please don't let my lord regard this worthless fellow, even Nabal; for as his name is, so is he; Nabal is his name, and folly is with him: but I your handmaid didn't see the young people of my lord, whom you did send.
26. Now therefore, my lord, as YHWH lives, and as your soul lives, seeing YHWH has withheld you from blood guiltiness, and from avenging yourself with your own hand, now therefore let your enemies, and those who seek brokenness to my lord, be as Nabal.
27. Now this present which your servant has brought to my lord, let it be given to the young people who follow my lord.
28. Please forgive the trespass of your handmaid: for YHWH will certainly make my lord a sure house, because my lord fights the battles of YHWH; and brokenness shall not be found in you all your days.
29. Though men be risen up to pursue you, and to seek your soul, yet the soul of my lord shall be bound in the bundle of life with YHWH your God; and the souls of your enemies, them shall he sling out, as from the hollow of a sling.
30. It shall come to pass, when YHWH shall have done to my lord according to all the good that he has spoken concerning you, and shall have appointed you prince over Israel,
31. that this shall be no grief to you, nor offense of heart to my lord, either that you have shed blood without cause, or that my lord has avenged himself. When YHWH shall have dealt well with my lord, then remember your handmaid.
32. Dawid said to Abigail, Blessed be YHWH, the God of Israel, who sent you this day to meet me:
33. and blessed be your discretion, and blessed be you, that have kept me this day from blood guiltiness, and from avenging myself with my own hand.
34. For in very deed, as YHWH, the God of Israel, lives, who has withheld me from hurting you, except you had hurried and come to meet me, surely there wouldn't have been left to Nabal by the morning light so much as one who urinates on a wall.
35. So Dawid received of her hand that which she had brought him: and he said to her, Go up in peace to your house; behold, I have listened to your voice, and have accepted your person.
36. Abigail came to Nabal; and behold, he held a feast in his house, like the feast of a king; and Nabal's heart was merry within him, for he was very drunken: therefore she told him nothing, less or more, until the morning light.
37. It happened in the morning, when the wine was gone out of Nabal, that his wife told him these things, and his heart died within him, and he became as a stone.
38. It happened about ten days after, that YHWH struck Nabal, so that he died.
39. When Dawid heard that Nabal was dead, he said, Blessed be YHWH, who has pleaded the cause of my reproach from the hand of Nabal, and has kept back his servant from harm: and the brokenness-doing of Nabal has YHWH returned on his own head. Dawid sent and spoke concerning Abigail, to take her to him as wife.
40. When the servants of Dawid were come to Abigail to Carmel, they spoke to her, saying, Dawid has sent us to you, to take you to him as wife.
41. She arose, and bowed herself with her face to the earth, and said, Behold, your handmaid is a servant to wash the feet of the servants of my lord.
42. Abigail hurried, and arose, and rode on a donkey, with five ladies of hers who followed her; and she went after the messengers of Dawid, and became his wife.
43. Dawid also took Ahinoam of Jezreel; and they became both of them his wives.
44. Now Shaul had given Michal his daughter, Dawid's wife, to Palti the son of Laish, who was of Gallim.

1 Samuel 26
1. The Ziphites came to Shaul to Gibeah, saying, Doesn't Dawid hide himself in the hill of Hachilah, which is before the desert?
2. Then Shaul arose, and went down to the wilderness of Ziph, having three thousand chosen people of Israel with him, to seek Dawid in the wilderness of Ziph.
3. Shaul encamped in the hill of Hachilah, which is before the desert, by the way. But Dawid abode in the wilderness, and he saw that Shaul came after him into the wilderness.
4. Dawid therefore sent out spies, and understood that Shaul was come of a certainty.
5. Dawid arose, and came to the place where Shaul had encamped; and Dawid saw the place where Shaul lay, and Abner the son of Ner, the captain of his army: and Shaul lay within the place of the wagons, and the people were encamped round about him.
6. Then answered Dawid and said to Ahimelech the Hittite, and to Abishai the son of Zeruiah, brother to Yoav, saying, Who will go down with me to Shaul to the camp? Abishai said, I will go down with you.
7. So Dawid and Abishai came to the people by night: and, behold, Shaul lay sleeping within the place of the wagons, with his spear stuck in the ground at his head; and Abner and the people lay round about him.
8. Then said Abishai to Dawid, Elohim has delivered up your enemy into your hand this day: now therefore please let me strike him with the spear to the earth at one stroke, and I will not strike him the second time.
9. Dawid said to Abishai, Don't destroy him; for who can put forth his hand against YHWH's anointed, and be guiltless?
10. Dawid said, As YHWH lives, YHWH will strike him; or his day shall come to die; or he shall go down into battle and perish.
11. YHWH forbid that I should put forth my hand against YHWH's anointed: but now please take the spear that is at his head, and the jar of water, and let us go.
12. So Dawid took the spear and the jar of water from Shaul's head; and they got them away: and no one saw it, nor knew it, neither did any awake; for they were all asleep, because a deep sleep from YHWH was fallen on them.
13. Then Dawid went over to the other side, and stood on the top of the mountain afar off; a great space being between them;
14. and Dawid cried to the people, and to Abner the son of Ner, saying, Don't you answer, Abner? Then Abner answered, Who are you who cries to the king?
15. Dawid said to Abner, Aren't you a [valiant] man? and who is like you in Israel? why then have you not kept watch over your lord, the king? for there came one of the people in to destroy the king your lord.
16. This thing isn't good that you have done. As YHWH lives, you are worthy to die, because you have not kept watch over your lord, YHWH's anointed. Now see where the king's spear is, and the jar of water that was at his head.
17. Shaul knew Dawid's voice, and said, Is this your voice, my son Dawid? Dawid said, It is my voice, my lord, O king.
18. He said, Why does my lord pursue after his servant? for what have I done? or what brokenness is in my hand?
19. Now therefore, please let my lord the king hear the words of his servant. If it be YHWH that has stirred you up against me, let him accept an offering: but if it be the children of people, cursed be they before YHWH: for they have driven me out this day that I shouldn't cling to YHWH's inheritance, saying, Go, serve other gods.
20. Now therefore, don't let my blood fall to the earth away from the presence of YHWH: for the king of Israel is come out to seek a flea, as when one does hunt a partridge in the mountains.
21. Then said Shaul, I have sinned: return, my son Dawid; for I will no more do you harm, because my life was precious in your eyes this day: behold, I have played the fool, and have erred exceedingly.
22. Dawid answered, Behold the spear, O king! let then one of the young people come over and get it.
23. YHWH will render to everyone their righteousness and their faithfulness; because YHWH delivered you into my hand today, and I wouldn't put forth my hand against YHWH's anointed.
24. Behold, as your life was much set by this day in my eyes, so let my life be much set by in the eyes of YHWH, and let him deliver me out of all oppression.
25. Then Shaul said to Dawid, Blessed be you, my son Dawid: you shall both do mightily, and shall surely prevail. So Dawid went his way, and Shaul returned to his place.

1 Samuel 27
1. Dawid said in his heart, I shall now perish one day by the hand of Shaul: there is nothing better for me than that I should escape into the land of the Philistines; and Shaul will despair of me, to seek me any more in all the borders of Israel: so shall I escape out of his hand.
2. Dawid arose, and passed over, he and the six hundred people who were with him, to Achish the son of Maoch, king of Gath.
3. Dawid lived with Achish at Gath, they and their men, everyone with their household, even Dawid with their two wives, Ahinoam the Jezreelitess, and Abigail the Carmelitess, Nabal's wife.
4. It was told Shaul that Dawid was fled to Gath: and he sought no more again for him.
5. Dawid said to Achish, If now I have found favor in your eyes, let them give me a place in one of the cities in the country, that I may dwell there: for why should your servant dwell in the royal city with you?
6. Then Achish gave him Ziklag that day: why Ziklag pertains to the kings of Yehudah to this day.
7. The number of the days that Dawid lived in the country of the Philistines was a full year and four months.
8. Dawid and his men went up, and made a raid on the Geshurites, and the Girzites, and the Amalekites; for those [nations] were the inhabitants of the land, who were of old, as you go to Shur, even to the land of Mitzrayim.
9. Dawid struck the land, and saved neither man nor woman alive, and took away the sheep, and the oxen, and the donkeys, and the camels, and the clothing; and he returned, and came to Achish.
10. Achish said, Against whom have you made a raid today? Dawid said, Against the South of Yehudah, and against the South of the Jerahmeelites, and against the South of the Kenites.
11. Dawid saved neither man nor woman alive, to bring them to Gath, saying, Lest they should tell of us, saying, So did Dawid, and so has been his manner all the while he has lived in the country of the Philistines.
12. Achish believed Dawid, saying, He has made his people Israel utterly to abhor him; therefore he shall be my servant forever.

1 Samuel 28
1. It happened in those days, that the Philistines gathered their armies together for warfare, to fight with Israel. Achish said to Dawid, Know you assuredly, that you shall go out with me in the army, you and your men.
2. Dawid said to Achish, Therefore you shall know what your servant will do. Achish said to Dawid, Therefore will I make you keeper of my head for ever.
3. Now Shmuel was dead, and all Israel had lamented him, and buried him in Ramah, even in his own city. Shaul had put away those who had familiar spirits, and the wizards, out of the land.
4. The Philistines gathered themselves together, and came and encamped in Shunem: and Shaul gathered all Israel together, and they encamped in Gilboa.
5. When Shaul saw the army of the Philistines, he was afraid, and his heart trembled greatly.
6. When Shaul inquired of YHWH, YHWH didn't answer him, neither by dreams, nor by Urim, nor by prophets.
7. Then said Shaul to his servants, Seek me a woman who has a familiar spirit, that I may go to her, and inquire of her. His servants said to him, Behold, there is a woman who has a familiar spirit at Endor.
8. Shaul disguised themselves, and put on other clothing, and went, they and two men with him, and they came to the woman by night: and they said, Please divine to me by the familiar spirit, and bring me up whoever I shall name to you.
9. The woman said to him, Behold, you know what Shaul has done, how he has cut off those who have familiar spirits, and the wizards, out of the land: why then lay you a snare for my life, to cause me to die?
10. Shaul swore to her by YHWH, saying, As YHWH lives, there shall no punishment happen to you for this thing.
11. Then said the woman, Whom shall I bring up to you? He said, Bring me up Shmuel.
12. When the woman saw Shmuel, she cried with a loud voice; and the woman spoke to Shaul, saying, Why have you deceived me? for you are Shaul.
13. The king said to her, Don't be afraid: for what do you see? The woman said to Shaul, I see a god coming up out of the earth.
14. He said to her, What form is he of? She said, An old man comes up; and he is covered with a robe. Shaul perceived that it was Shmuel, and he bowed with his face to the ground, and did obeisance.
15. Shmuel said to Shaul, Why have you disquieted me, to bring me up? Shaul answered, I am sore distressed; for the Philistines make war against me, and Elohim is departed from me, and answers me no more, neither by prophets, nor by dreams: therefore I have called you, that you may make known to me what I shall do.
16. Shmuel said, Why then do you ask of me, seeing YHWH is departed from you, and is become your adversary?
17. YHWH has done to you, as he spoke by me: and YHWH has torn the kingdom out of your hand, and given it to your neighbor, even to Dawid.
18. Because you didn't obey the voice of YHWH, and didn't execute his fierce wrath on Amalek, therefore has YHWH done this thing to you this day.
19. Moreover YHWH will deliver Israel also with you into the hand of the Philistines; and tomorrow shall you and your sons be with me: YHWH will deliver the army of Israel also into the hand of the Philistines.
20. Then Shaul fell immediately his full length on the earth, and was sore afraid, because of the words of Shmuel: and there was no strength in him; for he had eaten no bread all the day, nor all the night.
21. The woman came to Shaul, and saw that he was sore troubled, and said to him, Behold, your handmaid has listened to your voice, and I have put my life in my hand, and have listened to your words which you spoke to me.
22. Now therefore, please listen also to the voice of your handmaid, and let me set a morsel of bread before you; and eat, that you may have strength, when you go on your way.
23. But he refused, and said, I will not eat. But his servants, together with the woman, constrained him; and he listened to their voice. So he arose from the earth, and sat on the bed.
24. The woman had a fattened calf in the house; and she hurried, and killed it; and she took flour, and kneaded it, and did bake unleavened bread of it:
25. and she brought it before Shaul, and before his servants; and they ate. Then they rose up, and went away that night.

1 Samuel 29
1. Now the Philistines gathered together all their armies to Aphek: and the Israelites encamped by the spring which is in Jezreel.
2. The lords of the Philistines passed on by hundreds, and by thousands; and Dawid and his men passed on in the rearward with Achish.
3. Then said the princes of the Philistines, What [do] these Hebrews [here]? Achish said to the princes of the Philistines, Isn't this Dawid, the servant of Shaul the king of Israel, who has been with me these days, or [rather] these years, and I have found no fault in him since he fell away [to me] to this day?
4. But the princes of the Philistines were angry with him; and the princes of the Philistines said to him, Make the person return, that they may go back to their place where you have appointed him, and let him not go down with us to battle, lest in the battle they become an adversary to us: for with what should this [fellow] reconcile themselves to their lord? should it not be with the heads of these men?
5. Is not this Dawid, of whom they sang one to another in dances, saying, Shaul has slain his thousands, Dawid his ten thousands?
6. Then Achish called Dawid, and said to him, As YHWH lives, you have been upright, and your going out and your coming in with me in the army is good in my sight; for I have not found brokenness in you since the day of your coming to me to this day: nevertheless the lords don't favor you.
7. Therefore now return, and go in peace, that you not displease the lords of the Philistines.
8. Dawid said to Achish, But what have I done? and what have you found in your servant so long as I have been before you to this day, that I may not go and fight against the enemies of my lord the king?
9. Achish answered Dawid, I know that you are good in my sight, as an angel of Elohim: notwithstanding the princes of the Philistines have said, He shall not go up with us to the battle.
10. Therefore now rise up early in the morning with the servants of your lord who have come with you; and as soon as you are up early in the morning, and have light, depart.
11. So Dawid rose up early, he and his men, to depart in the morning, to return into the land of the Philistines. The Philistines went up to Jezreel.

1 Samuel 30
1. It happened, when Dawid and his men were come to Ziklag on the third day, that the Amalekites had made a raid on the South, and on Ziklag, and had struck Ziklag, and burned it with fire,
2. and had taken captive the women [and all] who were therein, both small and great: they didn't kill any, but carried them off, and went their way.
3. When Dawid and his men came to the city, behold, it was burned with fire; and their wives, and their sons, and their daughters, were taken captive.
4. Then Dawid and the people who were with him lifted up their voice and wept, until they had no more power to weep.
5. Dawid's two wives were taken captive, Ahinoam the Jezreelitess, and Abigail the wife of Nabal the Carmelite.
6. Dawid was greatly distressed; for the people spoke of stoning him, because the soul of all the people was grieved, everyone for their sons and for their daughters: but Dawid strengthened themselves in YHWH their God.
7. Dawid said to Abiathar the priest, the son of Ahimelech, Please bring me here the ephod. Abiathar brought there the ephod to Dawid.
8. Dawid inquired of YHWH, saying, If I pursue after this troop, shall I overtake them? He answered him, Pursue; for you shall surely overtake [them], and shall without fail recover [all].
9. So Dawid went, he and the six hundred people who were with him, and came to the brook Besor, where those who were left behind stayed.
10. But Dawid pursued, he and four hundred men; for two hundred stayed behind, who were so faint that they couldn't go over the brook Besor.
11. They found an Egyptian in the field, and brought him to Dawid, and gave him bread, and he ate; and they gave him water to drink.
12. They gave him a piece of a cake of figs, and two clusters of raisins: and when he had eaten, his spirit came again to him; for he had eaten no bread, nor drunk any water, three days and three nights.
13. Dawid said to him, To whom belong you? and whence are you? He said, I am a young person of Mitzrayim, servant to an Amalekite; and my master left me, because three days ago I fell sick.
14. We made a raid on the South of the Cherethites, and on that which belongs to Yehudah, and on the South of Kalev; and we burned Ziklag with fire.
15. Dawid said to him, Will you bring me down to this troop? He said, Swear to me by Elohim, that you will neither kill me, nor deliver me up into the hands of my master, and I will bring you down to this troop.
16. When he had brought him down, behold, they were spread abroad over all the ground, eating and drinking, and dancing, because of all the great spoil that they had taken out of the land of the Philistines, and out of the land of Yehudah.
17. Dawid struck them from the twilight even to the evening of the next day: and there not a person of them escaped, except four hundred young people, who rode on camels and fled.
18. Dawid recovered all that the Amalekites had taken; and Dawid rescued his two wives.
19. There was nothing lacking to them, neither small nor great, neither sons nor daughters, neither spoil, nor anything that they had taken to them: Dawid brought back all.
20. Dawid took all the flocks and the herds, [which] they drove before those [other] livestock, and said, This is Dawid's spoil.
21. Dawid came to the two hundred men, who were so faint that they could not follow Dawid, whom also they had made to abide at the brook Besor; and they went forth to meet Dawid, and to meet the people who were with him: and when Dawid came near to the people, he greeted them.
22. Then answered all the wicked men and base fellows, of those who went with Dawid, and said, Because they didn't go with us, we will not give them anything of the spoil that we have recovered, except to each man his wife and his children, that they may lead them away, and depart.
23. Then said Dawid, You shall not do so, my brothers, with that which YHWH has given to us, who has preserved us, and delivered the troop that came against us into our hand.
24. Who will listen to you in this matter? for as his share is who goes down to the battle, so shall his share be who tarries by the baggage: they shall share alike.
25. It was so from that day forward, that he made it a statute and an ordinance for Israel to this day.
26. When Dawid came to Ziklag, he sent of the spoil to the elders of Yehudah, even to his friends, saying, Behold, a present for you of the spoil of the enemies of YHWH:
27. To those who were in Beit El, and to those who were in Ramoth of the South, and to those who were in Jattir,
28. and to those who were in Aroer, and to those who were in Siphmoth, and to those who were in Eshtemoa,
29. and to those who were in Racal, and to those who were in the cities of the Jerahmeelites, and to those who were in the cities of the Kenites,
30. and to those who were in Hormah, and to those who were in Borashan, and to those who were in Athach,
31. and to those who were in Chevron, and to all the places where Dawid himself and his men used to stay.

1 Samuel 31
1. Now the Philistines fought against Israel: and the people of Israel fled from before the Philistines, and fell down slain on Mount Gilboa.
2. The Philistines followed hard on Shaul and on his sons; and the Philistines killed Yonatan, and Abinadab, and Malchishua, the sons of Shaul.
3. The battle went sore against Shaul, and the archers overtook him; and he was greatly distressed by reason of the archers.
4. Then said Shaul to his armor bearer, Draw your sword, and thrust me through therewith, lest these uncircumcised come and thrust me through, and abuse me. But his armor bearer would not; for he was sore afraid. Therefore Shaul took his sword, and fell on it.
5. When his armor bearer saw that Shaul was dead, he likewise fell on his sword, and died with him.
6. So Shaul died, and his three sons, and his armor bearer, and all his men, that same day together.
7. When the people of Israel who were on the other side of the valley, and those who were beyond the Yarden, saw that the people of Israel fled, and that Shaul and his sons were dead, they forsook the cities, and fled; and the Philistines came and lived in them.
8. It happened on the next day, when the Philistines came to strip the slain, that they found Shaul and his three sons fallen on Mount Gilboa.
9. They cut off his head, and stripped off his armor, and sent into the land of the Philistines round about, to carry the news to the house of their idols, and to the people.
10. They put his armor in the house of the Ashtaroth; and they fastened his body to the wall of Beth Shan.
11. When the inhabitants of Jabesh Gilead heard concerning him that which the Philistines had done to Shaul,
12. all the valiant men arose, and went all night, and took the body of Shaul and the bodies of his sons from the wall of Beth Shan; and they came to Jabesh, and burnt them there.
13. They took their bones, and buried them under the tamarisk tree in Jabesh, and fasted seven days.

2 Samuel 1
1. It happened after the death of Shaul, when Dawid was returned from the slaughter of the Amalekites, and Dawid had abode two days in Ziklag;
2. it happened on the third day, that behold, a person came out of the camp from Shaul, with their clothes torn, and earth on their head: and so it was, when they came to Dawid, that they fell to the earth, and did obeisance.
3. Dawid said to him, From whence come you? He said to him, Out of the camp of Israel am I escaped.
4. Dawid said to him, How went the matter? Please tell me. He answered, The people are fled from the battle, and many of the people also are fallen and dead; and Shaul and Yonatan his son are dead also.
5. Dawid said to the young person who told him, How know you that Shaul and Yonatan their son are dead?
6. The young person who told him said, As I happened by chance on Mount Gilboa, behold, Shaul was leaning on their spear; and behold, the chariots and the horsemen followed hard after him.
7. When he looked behind him, he saw me, and called to me. I answered, Here am I.
8. He said to me, Who are you? I answered him, I am an Amalekite.
9. He said to me, Stand, I pray you, beside me, and kill me; for anguish has taken hold of me, because my life is yet whole in me.
10. So I stood beside him, and killed him, because I was sure that he could not live after that he was fallen: and I took the crown that was on his head, and the bracelet that was on his arm, and have brought them here to my lord.
11. Then Dawid took hold on his clothes, and tore them; and likewise all the people who were with him:
12. and they mourned, and wept, and fasted until even, for Shaul, and for Yonatan his son, and for the people of YHWH, and for the house of Israel; because they were fallen by the sword.
13. Dawid said to the young person who told him, Whence are you? He answered, I am the son of a foreigner, an Amalekite.
14. Dawid said to him, How were you not afraid to put forth your hand to destroy YHWH's anointed?
15. Dawid called one of the young people, and said, Go near, and fall on him. He struck him, so that he died.
16. Dawid said to him, Your blood be on your head; for your mouth has testified against you, saying, I have slain YHWH's anointed.
17. Dawid lamented with this lamentation over Shaul and over Yonatan his son
18. (and he bade them teach the children of Yehudah [the song of] the bow: behold, it is written in the book of Jashar):
19. Your glory, Israel, is slain on your high places! How the mighty have fallen!
20. Don't tell it in Gath. Don't publish it in the streets of Ashkelon, lest the daughters of the Philistines rejoice, lest the daughters of the uncircumcised triumph.
21. You mountains of Gilboa, let there be no dew nor rain on you, neither fields of offerings; For there the shield of the mighty was vilely cast away, The shield of Shaul was not anointed with oil.
22. From the blood of the slain, from the fat of the mighty, Yonatan's bow didn't turn back. Shaul's sword didn't return empty.
23. Shaul and Yonatan were lovely and pleasant in their lives. In their death, they were not divided. They were swifter than eagles. They were stronger than lions.
24. You daughters of Israel, weep over Shaul, who clothed you in scarlet delicately, who put ornaments of gold on your clothing.
25. How are the mighty fallen in the midst of the battle! Yonatan is slain on your high places.
26. I am distressed for you, my brother Yonatan. You have been very pleasant to me. Your love to me was wonderful, passing the love of women.
27. How are the mighty fallen, and the weapons of war perished!

2 Samuel 2
1. It happened after this, that Dawid inquired of YHWH, saying, Shall I go up into any of the cities of Yehudah? YHWH said to him, Go up. Dawid said, Where shall I go up? He said, To Chevron.
2. So Dawid went up there, and his two wives also, Ahinoam the Jezreelitess, and Abigail the wife of Nabal the Carmelite.
3. Their people who were with him did Dawid bring up, everyone with their household: and they lived in the cities of Chevron.
4. The people of Yehudah came, and there they anointed Dawid king over the house of Yehudah. They told Dawid, saying, The men of Jabesh Gilead were those who buried Shaul.
5. Dawid sent messengers to the men of Jabesh Gilead, and said to them, Blessed be you of YHWH, that you have shown this kindness to your lord, even to Shaul, and have buried him.
6. Now YHWH show loving kindness and truth to you: and I also will requite you this kindness, because you have done this thing.
7. Now therefore let your hands be strong, and be you valiant; for Shaul your lord is dead, and also the house of Yehudah have anointed me king over them.
8. Now Abner the son of Ner, captain of Shaul's army, had taken Ishbosheth the son of Shaul, and brought him over to Mahanaim;
9. and he made him king over Gilead, and over the Ashurites, and over Jezreel, and over Efrayim, and over Binyamin, and over all Israel.
10. Ishbosheth, Shaul's son, was forty years old when he began to reign over Israel, and he reigned two years. But the house of Yehudah followed Dawid.
11. The time that Dawid was king in Chevron over the house of Yehudah was seven years and six months.
12. Abner the son of Ner, and the servants of Ishbosheth the son of Shaul, went out from Mahanaim to Gibeon.
13. Yoav the son of Zeruiah, and the servants of Dawid, went out, and met them by the pool of Gibeon; and they sat down, the one on the one side of the pool, and the other on the other side of the pool.
14. Abner said to Yoav, Please let the young people arise and play before us. Yoav said, Let them arise.
15. Then they arose and went over by number: twelve for Binyamin, and for Ishbosheth the son of Shaul, and twelve of the servants of Dawid.
16. They caught everyone their fellow by the head, and [thrust] their sword in their fellow's side; so they fell down together: therefore that place was called Helkath Hazzurim, which is in Gibeon.
17. The battle was very severe that day: and Abner was beaten, and the people of Israel, before the servants of Dawid.
18. The three sons of Zeruiah were there, Yoav, and Abishai, and Asahel: and Asahel was as light of foot as a wild gazelle.
19. Asahel pursued after Abner; and in going he didn't turn to the right hand nor to the left from following Abner.
20. Then Abner looked behind him, and said, Is it you, Asahel? He answered, It is I.
21. Abner said to him, Turn you aside to your right hand or to your left, and lay you hold on one of the young people, and take you his armor. But Asahel would not turn aside from following him.
22. Abner said again to Asahel, Turn you aside from following me: why should I strike you to the ground? how then should I hold up my face to Yoav your brother?
23. However he refused to turn aside: therefore Abner with the hinder end of the spear struck him in the body, so that the spear came out behind him; and he fell down there, and died in the same place: and it happened, that as many as came to the place where Asahel fell down and died stood still.
24. But Yoav and Abishai pursued after Abner: and the sun went down when they were come to the hill of Ammah, that lies before Giah by the way of the wilderness of Gibeon.
25. The children of Binyamin gathered themselves together after Abner, and became one band, and stood on the top of a hill.
26. Then Abner called to Yoav, and said, "Shall the sword devour forever? Don't you know that it will be bitterness in the latter end? How long shall it be then, before you bid the people return from following their brothers?"
27. Yoav said, As Elohim lives, if you had not spoken, surely then in the morning the people had gone away, nor followed everyone their brother.
28. So Yoav blew the trumpet; and all the people stood still, and pursued after Israel no more, neither fought they any more.
29. Abner and his men went all that night through the Arabah; and they passed over the Yarden, and went through all Bithron, and came to Mahanaim.
30. Yoav returned from following Abner: and when he had gathered all the people together, there lacked of Dawid's servants nineteen men and Asahel.
31. But the servants of Dawid had struck of Binyamin, and of Abner's men, [so that] three hundred sixty men died.
32. They took up Asahel, and buried him in the tomb of his father, which was in Beit Lechem. Yoav and his men went all night, and the day broke on them at Chevron.

2 Samuel 3
1. Now there was long war between the house of Shaul and the house of Dawid: and Dawid grew stronger and stronger, but the house of Shaul grew weaker and weaker.
2. To Dawid were sons born in Chevron: and his firstborn was Amnon, of Ahinoam the Jezreelitess;
3. and his second, Chileab, of Abigail the wife of Nabal the Carmelite; and the third, Avshalom the son of Maacah the daughter of Talmai king of Geshur;
4. and the fourth, Adonijah the son of Haggith; and the fifth, Shephatiah the son of Abital;
5. and the sixth, Ithream, of Eglah, Dawid's wife. These were born to Dawid in Chevron.
6. It happened, while there was war between the house of Shaul and the house of Dawid, that Abner made himself strong in the house of Shaul.
7. Now Shaul had a concubine, whose name was Rizpah, the daughter of Aiah: and [Ishbosheth] said to Abner, Why have you gone in to my father's concubine?
8. Then was Abner very angry for the words of Ishbosheth, and said, Am I a dog's head that belongs to Yehudah? This day do I show kindness to the house of Shaul your father, to his brothers, and to his friends, and have not delivered you into the hand of Dawid; and yet you charge me this day with a fault concerning this woman.
9. Elohim do so to Abner, and more also, if, as YHWH has sworn to Dawid, I don't do even so to him;
10. to transfer the kingdom from the house of Shaul, and to set up the throne of Dawid over Israel and over Yehudah, from Dan even to Be'er Sheva.
11. He could not answer Abner another word, because he feared him.
12. Abner sent messengers to Dawid on his behalf, saying, Whose is the land? saying [also], Make your league with me, and behold, my hand shall be with you, to bring about all Israel to you.
13. He said, Well; I will make a league with you; but one thing I require of you: that is, you shall not see my face, except you first bring Michal, Shaul's daughter, when you come to see my face.
14. Dawid sent messengers to Ishbosheth, Shaul's son, saying, Deliver me my wife Michal, whom I pledged to be married to me for one hundred foreskins of the Philistines.
15. Ishbosheth sent, and took her from her husband, even from Paltiel the son of Laish.
16. Her husband went with her, weeping as he went, and followed her to Bahurim. Then said Abner to him, Go, return: and he returned.
17. Abner had communication with the elders of Israel, saying, In times past you sought for Dawid to be king over you:
18. now then do it; for YHWH has spoken of Dawid, saying, By the hand of my servant Dawid I will save my people Israel out of the hand of the Philistines, and out of the hand of all their enemies.
19. Abner also spoke in the ears of Binyamin: and Abner went also to speak in the ears of Dawid in Chevron all that seemed good to Israel, and to the whole house of Binyamin.
20. So Abner came to Dawid to Chevron, and twenty men with him. Dawid made Abner and the people who were with him a feast.
21. Abner said to Dawid, I will arise and go, and will gather all Israel to my lord the king, that they may make a covenant with you, and that you may reign over all that your soul desires. Dawid sent Abner away; and he went in peace.
22. Behold, the servants of Dawid and Yoav came from a foray, and brought in a great spoil with them: but Abner was not with Dawid in Chevron; for he had sent him away, and he was gone in peace.
23. When Yoav and all the army who was with him had come, they told Yoav, saying, Abner the son of Ner came to the king, and he has sent him away, and he is gone in peace.
24. Then Yoav came to the king, and said, What have you done? behold, Abner came to you; why is it that you have sent him away, and he is quite gone?
25. You know Abner the son of Ner, that he came to deceive you, and to know your going out and your coming in, and to know all that you do.
26. When Yoav was come out from Dawid, he sent messengers after Abner, and they brought him back from the well of Sirah: but Dawid didn't know it.
27. When Abner was returned to Chevron, Yoav took him aside into the midst of the gate to speak with him quietly, and struck him there in the body, so that he died, for the blood of Asahel his brother.
28. Afterward, when Dawid heard it, he said, I and my kingdom are guiltless before YHWH forever of the blood of Abner the son of Ner:
29. let it fall on the head of Yoav, and on all his father's house; and let there not fail from the house of Yoav one who has an issue, or who is a leper, or who leans on a staff, or who falls by the sword, or who lacks bread.
30. So Yoav and Abishai his brother killed Abner, because he had killed their brother Asahel at Gibeon in the battle.
31. Dawid said to Yoav, and to all the people who were with him, Tear your clothes, and gird you with sackcloth, and mourn before Abner. King Dawid followed the bier.
32. They buried Abner in Chevron: and the king lifted up his voice, and wept at the grave of Abner; and all the people wept.
33. The king lamented for Abner, and said, Should Abner die as a fool dies?
34. Your hands were not bound, nor your feet put into fetters. As a person falls before the children of iniquity, so you fell. All the people wept again over him.
35. All the people came to cause Dawid to eat bread while it was yet day; but Dawid swore, saying, Elohim do so to me, and more also, if I taste bread, or anything else, until the sun be down.
36. All the people took notice of it, and it pleased them; as whatever the king did pleased all the people.
37. So all the people and all Israel understood that day that it was not of the king to kill Abner the son of Ner.
38. The king said to their servants, "Don't you know that there is a prince and a great person has fallen this day in Israel?
39. I am this day weak, though anointed king; and these men the sons of Zeruiah are too hard for me. May YHWH reward the one who acts from brokenness according to their wickedness."

2 Samuel 4
1. When [Ishbosheth], Shaul's son, heard that Abner was dead in Chevron, his hands became feeble, and all the Israelites were troubled.
2. [Ishbosheth], Shaul's son, [had] two people who were captains of bands: the name of the one was Baanah, and the name of the other Rechab, the sons of Rimmon the Beerothite, of the children of Binyamin (for Beeroth also is reckoned to Binyamin:
3. and the Beerothites fled to Gittaim, and have lived as foreigners there until this day).
4. Now Yonatan, Shaul's son, had a son who was lame of his feet. He was five years old when the news came of Shaul and Yonatan out of Jezreel; and his nurse took him up, and fled: and it happened, as she made haste to flee, that he fell, and became lame. His name was Mephibosheth.
5. The sons of Rimmon the Beerothite, Rechab and Baanah, went, and came about the heat of the day to the house of Ishbosheth, as he took his rest at noon.
6. They came there into the midst of the house, as though they would have fetched wheat; and they struck him in the body: and Rechab and Baanah his brother escaped.
7. Now when they came into the house, as he lay on his bed in his bedchamber, they struck him, and killed him, and beheaded him, and took his head, and went by the way of the Arabah all night.
8. They brought the head of Ishbosheth to Dawid to Chevron, and said to the king, Behold, the head of Ishbosheth, the son of Shaul, your enemy, who sought your life; and YHWH has avenged my lord the king this day of Shaul, and of his seed.
9. Dawid answered Rechab and Baanah his brother, the sons of Rimmon the Beerothite, and said to them, As YHWH lives, who has redeemed my soul out of all adversity,
10. when one told me, saying, Behold, Shaul is dead, thinking to have brought good news, I took hold of him, and killed him in Ziklag, which was the reward I gave him for his news.
11. How much more, when wicked men have slain a righteous person in their own house on their bed, shall I not now require their blood of your hand, and take you away from the earth?
12. Dawid commanded his young people, and they killed them, and cut off their hands and their feet, and hanged them up beside the pool in Chevron. But they took the head of Ishbosheth, and buried it in the grave of Abner in Chevron.

2 Samuel 5
1. Then came all the tribes of Israel to Dawid to Chevron, and spoke, saying, Behold, we are your bone and your flesh.
2. In times past, when Shaul was king over us, it was you who led out and brought in Israel: and YHWH said to you, You shall be shepherd of my people Israel, and you shall be prince over Israel.
3. So all the elders of Israel came to the king to Chevron; and king Dawid made a covenant with them in Chevron before YHWH: and they anointed Dawid king over Israel.
4. Dawid was thirty years old when he began to reign, and he reigned forty years.
5. In Chevron he reigned over Yehudah seven years and six months; and in Yerushalayim he reigned thirty-three years over all Israel and Yehudah.
6. The king and his men went to Yerushalayim against the Jebusites, the inhabitants of the land, who spoke to Dawid, saying, Except you take away the blind and the lame, you shall not come in here; thinking, Dawid can't come in here.
7. Nevertheless Dawid took the stronghold of Tzion; the same is the city of Dawid.
8. Dawid said on that day, Whoever strikes the Jebusites, let him get up to the watercourse, and [strike] the lame and the blind, who are hated of Dawid's soul. Therefore they say, There are the blind and the lame; he can't come into the house.
9. Dawid lived in the stronghold, and called it the city of Dawid. Dawid built round about from Millo and inward.
10. Dawid grew greater and greater; for YHWH, the God of Armies, was with him.
11. Hiram king of Tzor sent messengers to Dawid, and cedar trees, and carpenters, and masons; and they built Dawid a house.
12. Dawid perceived that YHWH had established him king over Israel, and that he had exalted his kingdom for his people Israel's sake.
13. Dawid took him more concubines and wives out of Yerushalayim, after he was come from Chevron; and there were yet sons and daughters born to Dawid.
14. These are the names of those who were born to him in Yerushalayim: Shammua, and Shobab, and Natan, and Shlomo,
15. and Ibhar, and Elishua, and Nepheg, and Japhia,
16. and Elishama, and Eliada, and Eliphelet.
17. When the Philistines heard that they had anointed Dawid king over Israel, all the Philistines went up to seek Dawid; and Dawid heard of it, and went down to the stronghold.
18. Now the Philistines had come and spread themselves in the valley of Rephaim.
19. Dawid inquired of YHWH, saying, Shall I go up against the Philistines? will you deliver them into my hand? YHWH said to Dawid, Go up; for I will certainly deliver the Philistines into your hand.
20. Dawid came to Baal Perazim, and Dawid struck them there; and he said, YHWH has broken my enemies before me, like the breach of waters. Therefore he called the name of that place Baal Perazim.
21. They left their images there; and Dawid and his men took them away.
22. The Philistines came up yet again, and spread themselves in the valley of Rephaim.
23. When Dawid inquired of YHWH, he said, You shall not go up: make a circuit behind them, and come on them over against the mulberry trees.
24. It shall be, when you hear the sound of marching in the tops of the mulberry trees, that then you shall bestir yourself; for then is YHWH gone out before you to strike the army of the Philistines.
25. Dawid did so, as YHWH commanded him, and struck the Philistines from Geba until you come to Gezer.

2 Samuel 6
1. Dawid again gathered together all the chosen people of Israel, thirty thousand.
2. Dawid arose, and went with all the people who were with him, from Baale Yehudah, to bring up from there the ark of Elohim, which is called by the Name, even the name of YHWH of Armies who sits [above] the cherubim.
3. They set the ark of Elohim on a new cart, and brought it out of the house of Abinadab that was in the hill: and Uzzah and Ahio, the sons of Abinadab, drove the new cart.
4. They brought it out of the house of Abinadab, which was in the hill, with the ark of Elohim: and Ahio went before the ark.
5. Dawid and all the house of Israel played before YHWH with all manner of [instruments made of] fir wood, and with harps, and with stringed instruments, and with tambourines, and with castanets, and with cymbals.
6. When they came to the threshing floor of Nacon, Uzzah put forth [his hand] to the ark of Elohim, and took hold of it; for the oxen stumbled.
7. The anger of YHWH was kindled against Uzzah; and Elohim struck him there for his error; and there he died by the ark of Elohim.
8. Dawid was displeased, because YHWH had broken forth on Uzzah; and he called that place Perez Uzzah, to this day.
9. Dawid was afraid of YHWH that day; and he said, How shall the ark of YHWH come to me?
10. So Dawid would not remove the ark of YHWH to him into the city of Dawid; but Dawid carried it aside into the house of Obed-Edom the Gittite.
11. The ark of YHWH remained in the house of Obed-Edom the Gittite three months: and YHWH blessed Obed-Edom, and all his house.
12. It was told king Dawid, saying, YHWH has blessed the house of Obed-Edom, and all that pertains to him, because of the ark of Elohim. Dawid went and brought up the ark of Elohim from the house of Obed-Edom into the city of Dawid with joy.
13. It was so, that, when those who bore the ark of YHWH had gone six paces, he sacrificed an ox and a fattened calf.
14. Dawid danced before YHWH with all his might; and Dawid was girded with a linen ephod.
15. So Dawid and all the house of Israel brought up the ark of YHWH with shouting, and with the sound of the trumpet.
16. It was so, as the ark of YHWH came into the city of Dawid, that Michal the daughter of Shaul looked out at the window, and saw king Dawid leaping and dancing before YHWH; and she despised him in her heart.
17. They brought in the ark of YHWH, and set it in its place, in the midst of the tent that Dawid had pitched for it; and Dawid offered burnt offerings and peace offerings before YHWH.
18. When Dawid had made an end of offering the burnt offering and the peace offerings, he blessed the people in the name of YHWH of Armies.
19. They dealt among all the people, even among the whole multitude of Israel, both to people and women, to everyone a cake of bread, and a portion [of flesh], and a cake of raisins. So all the people departed everyone to their house.
20. Then Dawid returned to bless his household. Michal the daughter of Shaul came out to meet Dawid, and said, How glorious was the king of Israel today, who uncovered himself today in the eyes of the handmaids of his servants, as one of the vain fellows shamelessly uncovers himself!
21. Dawid said to Michal, [It was] before YHWH, who chose me above your father, and above all his house, to appoint me prince over the people of YHWH, over Israel: therefore will I play before YHWH.
22. I will be yet more vile than this, and will be base in my own sight: but of the handmaids of whom you have spoken, they shall honor me.
23. Michal the daughter of Shaul had no child to the day of her death.

2 Samuel 7
1. It happened, when the king lived in his house, and YHWH had given him rest from all his enemies round about,
2. that the king said to Natan the prophet, See now, I dwell in a house of cedar, but the ark of Elohim dwells within curtains.
3. Natan said to the king, Go, do all that is in your heart; for YHWH is with you.
4. It happened the same night, that the word of YHWH came to Natan, saying,
5. Go and tell my servant Dawid, Thus says YHWH, Shall you build me a house for me to dwell in?
6. for I have not lived in a house since the day that I brought up the children of Israel out of Mitzrayim, even to this day, but have moved around in a tent and in a tabernacle.
7. In all places in which I have walked with all the children of Israel, spoke I a word with any of the tribes of Israel, whom I commanded to be shepherd of my people Israel, saying, Why have you not built me a house of cedar?
8. Now therefore thus shall you tell my servant Dawid, Thus says YHWH of Armies, I took you from the sheep pen, from following the sheep, that you should be prince over my people, over Israel;
9. and I have been with you wherever you went, and have cut off all your enemies from before you; and I will make you a great name, like the name of the great ones who are in the earth.
10. I will appoint a place for my people Israel, and will plant them, that they may dwell in their own place, and be moved no more; neither shall the children of wickedness afflict them any more, as at the first,
11. and [as] from the day that I commanded judges to be over my people Israel; and I will cause you to rest from all your enemies. Moreover YHWH tells you that YHWH will make you a house.
12. When your days are fulfilled, and you shall sleep with your fathers, I will set up your seed after you, who shall proceed out of your bowels, and I will establish his kingdom.
13. He shall build a house for my name, and I will establish the throne of his kingdom forever.
14. I will be his father, and he shall be my son: if he commit iniquity, I will chasten him with the rod of people, and with the stripes of the children of people;
15. but my loving kindness shall not depart from him, as I took it from Shaul, whom I put away before you.
16. Your house and your kingdom shall be made sure for ever before you: your throne shall be established forever.
17. According to all these words, and according to all this vision, so did Natan speak to Dawid.
18. Then Dawid the king went in, and sat before YHWH; and he said, Who am I, YHWH God, and what is my house, that you have brought me thus far?
19. This was yet a small thing in your eyes, YHWH God; but you have spoken also of your servant's house for a great while to come; and this [too] after the manner of people, YHWH God!
20. What can Dawid say more to you? for you know your servant, YHWH God.
21. For your word's sake, and according to your own heart, have you worked all this greatness, to make your servant know it.
22. Therefore you are great, YHWH Elohim: for there is none like you, neither is there any Elohim besides you, according to all that we have heard with our ears.
23. What one nation in the earth is like your people, even like Israel, whom Elohim went to redeem to himself for a people, and to make him a name, and to do great things for you, and awesome things for your land, before your people, whom you redeem to you out of Mitzrayim, [from] the nations and their gods?
24. You did establish to yourself your people Israel to be a people to you forever; and you, YHWH, became their God.
25. Now, YHWH Elohim, the word that you have spoken concerning your servant, and concerning his house, confirm you it forever, and do as you have spoken.
26. Let your name be magnified forever, saying, YHWH of Armies is Elohim over Israel; and the house of your servant Dawid shall be established before you.
27. For you, YHWH of Armies, the God of Israel, have revealed to your servant, saying, I will build you a house: therefore has your servant found in his heart to pray this prayer to you.
28. Now, O YHWH God, you are Elohim, and your words are truth, and you have promised this good thing to your servant:
29. now therefore let it please you to bless the house of your servant, that it may continue forever before you; for you, YHWH God, have spoken it: and with your blessing let the house of your servant be blessed forever.

2 Samuel 8
1. After this it happened that Dawid struck the Philistines, and subdued them: and Dawid took the bridle of the mother city out of the hand of the Philistines.
2. He struck Moab, and measured them with the line, making them to lie down on the ground; and he measured two lines to put to death, and one full line to keep alive. The Moabites became servants to Dawid, and brought tribute.
3. Dawid struck also Hadadezer the son of Rehob, king of Zobah, as he went to recover his dominion at the River.
4. Dawid took from him one thousand seven hundred horsemen, and twenty thousand footmen: and Dawid hamstrung all the chariot horses, but reserved of them for one hundred chariots.
5. When the Syrians of Dammeseq came to help Hadadezer king of Zobah, Dawid struck of the Syrians two and twenty thousand men.
6. Then Dawid put garrisons in Aram of Dammeseq; and the Syrians became servants to Dawid, and brought tribute. YHWH gave victory to Dawid wherever he went.
7. Dawid took the shields of gold that were on the servants of Hadadezer, and brought them to Yerushalayim.
8. From Betah and from Berothai, cities of Hadadezer, king Dawid took exceeding much brass.
9. When Toi king of Hamath heard that Dawid had struck all the army of Hadadezer,
10. then Toi sent Joram his son to king Dawid, to Greet him, and to bless him, because he had fought against Hadadezer and struck him: for Hadadezer had wars with Toi. [Joram] brought with him vessels of silver, and vessels of gold, and vessels of brass:
11. These also did king Dawid dedicate to YHWH, with the silver and gold that he dedicated of all the nations which he subdued;
12. of Aram, and of Moab, and of the children of Ammon, and of the Philistines, and of Amalek, and of the spoil of Hadadezer, son of Rehob, king of Zobah.
13. Dawid got him a name when he returned from smiting the Syrians in the Valley of Salt, even eighteen thousand men.
14. He put garrisons in Edom; throughout all Edom put he garrisons, and all the Edomites became servants to Dawid. YHWH gave victory to Dawid wherever he went.
15. Dawid reigned over all Israel; and Dawid executed justice and righteousness to all his people.
16. Yoav the son of Zeruiah was over the army; and Yehoshafat the son of Ahilud was recorder;
17. and Tzadok the son of Ahitub, and Ahimelech the son of Abiathar, were priests; and Seraiah was scribe;
18. and Benayahu the son of Yehoyada [was over] the Cherethites and the Pelethites; and Dawid's sons were chief ministers.

2 Samuel 9
1. Dawid said, Is there yet any who is left of the house of Shaul, that I may show him kindness for Yonatan's sake?
2. There was of the house of Shaul a servant whose name was Ziba, and they called him to Dawid; and the king said to him, Are you Ziba? He said, Your servant is he.
3. The king said, Is there not yet any of the house of Shaul, that I may show the kindness of Elohim to him? Ziba said to the king, Yonatan has yet a son, who is lame of his feet.
4. The king said to him, Where is he? Ziba said to the king, Behold, he is in the house of Machir the son of Ammiel, in Lo Debar.
5. Then king Dawid sent, and fetched him out of the house of Machir the son of Ammiel, from Lo Debar.
6. Mephibosheth, the son of Yonatan, the son of Shaul, came to Dawid, and fell on his face, and did obeisance. Dawid said, Mephibosheth. He answered, Behold, your servant!
7. Dawid said to him, "Don't be afraid of him; for I will surely show you kindness for Yonatan your father's sake, and will restore you all the land of Shaul your father; and you shall eat bread at my table continually."
8. He did obeisance, and said, "What is your servant, that you should look on such a dead dog as I am?"
9. Then the king called to Ziba, Shaul's servant, and said to him, "All that pertained to Shaul and to all his house have I given to your master's son.
10. You shall till the land for him, you, and your sons, and your servants; and you shall bring in [the fruits], that your master's son may have bread to eat: but Mephibosheth your master's son shall eat bread always at my table." Now Ziba had fifteen sons and twenty servants.
11. Then said Ziba to the king, According to all that my lord the king commands his servant, so shall your servant do. As for Mephibosheth, [said the king], he shall eat at my table, as one of the king's sons.
12. Mephibosheth had a young son, whose name was Mica. All that lived in the house of Ziba were servants to Mephibosheth.
13. So Mephibosheth lived in Yerushalayim; for he ate continually at the king's table. He was lame in both his feet.

2 Samuel 10
1. It happened after this, that the king of the children of Ammon died, and Hanun his son reigned in his place.
2. Dawid said, I will show kindness to Hanun the son of Nahash, as his father shown kindness to me. So Dawid sent by his servants to comfort him concerning his father. Dawid's servants came into the land of the children of Ammon.
3. But the princes of the children of Ammon said to Hanun their lord, Do you think that Dawid honors your father, in that he has sent comforters to you? Hasn't Dawid sent his servants to you to search the city, and to spy it out, and to overthrow it?
4. So Hanun took Dawid's servants, and shaved off the one half of their beards, and cut off their garments in the middle, even to their buttocks, and sent them away.
5. When they told it to Dawid, he sent to meet them; for the men were greatly ashamed. The king said, Wait at Yericho until your beards be grown, and then return.
6. When the children of Ammon saw that they were become odious to Dawid, the children of Ammon sent and hired the Syrians of Beth Rehob, and the Syrians of Zobah, twenty thousand footmen, and the king of Maacah with one thousand men, and the men of Tob twelve thousand men.
7. When Dawid heard of it, he sent Yoav, and all the army of the mighty men.
8. The children of Ammon came out, and put the battle in array at the entrance of the gate: and the Syrians of Zobah and of Rehob, and the men of Tob and Maacah, were by themselves in the field.
9. Now when Yoav saw that the battle was set against him before and behind, he chose of all the choice people of Israel, and put them in array against the Syrians:
10. The rest of the people he committed into the hand of Abishai his brother; and he put them in array against the children of Ammon.
11. He said, If the Syrians be too strong for me, then you shall help me; but if the children of Ammon be too strong for you, then I will come and help you.
12. Be of good courage, and let us play the person for our people, and for the cities of our God: and YHWH do that which seems him good.
13. So Yoav and the people who were with him drew near to the battle against the Syrians: and they fled before him.
14. When the children of Ammon saw that the Syrians were fled, they likewise fled before Abishai, and entered into the city. Then Yoav returned from the children of Ammon, and came to Yerushalayim.
15. When the Syrians saw that they were put to the worse before Israel, they gathered themselves together.
16. Hadarezer sent, and brought out the Syrians who were beyond the River: and they came to Helam, with Shobach the captain of the army of Hadarezer at their head.
17. It was told Dawid; and he gathered all Israel together, and passed over the Yarden, and came to Helam. The Syrians set themselves in array against Dawid, and fought with him.
18. The Syrians fled before Israel; and Dawid killed of the Syrians [the men of] seven hundred chariots, and forty thousand horsemen, and struck Shobach the captain of their army, so that he died there.
19. When all the kings who were servants to Hadarezer saw that they were put to the worse before Israel, they made peace with Israel, and served them. So the Syrians feared to help the children of Ammon any more.

2 Samuel 11
1. It happened, at the return of the year, at the time when kings go out [to battle], that Dawid sent Yoav, and his servants with him, and all Israel; and they destroyed the children of Ammon, and besieged Rabbah. But Dawid stayed at Yerushalayim.
2. It happened at evening, that Dawid arose from off his bed, and walked on the roof of the king's house: and from the roof he saw a woman bathing; and the woman was very beautiful to look on.
3. Dawid send and inquired after the woman. One said, Is not this Bat-Sheva, the daughter of Eliam, the wife of Uriyah the Hittite?
4. Dawid sent messengers, and took her; and she came in to him, and he lay with her (for she was purified from her uncleanness); and she returned to her house.
5. The woman conceived; and she sent and told Dawid, and said, I am with child.
6. Dawid sent to Yoav, [saying], Send me Uriyah the Hittite. Yoav sent Uriyah to Dawid.
7. When Uriyah was come to him, Dawid asked of him how Yoav did, and how the people fared, and how the war prospered.
8. Dawid said to Uriyah, Go down to your house, and wash your feet. Uriyah departed out of the king's house, and there followed him a mess [of food] from the king.
9. But Uriyah slept at the door of the king's house with all the servants of his lord, and didn't go down to his house.
10. When they had told Dawid, saying, Uriyah didn't go down to his house, Dawid said to Uriyah, Haven't you come from a journey? why did you not go down to your house?
11. Uriyah said to Dawid, The ark, and Israel, and Yehudah, abide in booths; and my lord Yoav, and the servants of my lord, are encamped in the open field; shall I then go into my house, to eat and to drink, and to lie with my wife? as you live, and as your soul lives, I will not do this thing.
12. Dawid said to Uriyah, Stay here today also, and tomorrow I will let you depart. So Uriyah abode in Yerushalayim that day, and the next day.
13. When Dawid had called him, he ate and drink before him; and he made him drunk: and at even he went out to lie on his bed with the servants of his lord, but didn't go down to his house.
14. It happened in the morning, that Dawid wrote a letter to Yoav, and sent it by the hand of Uriyah.
15. He wrote in the letter, saying, Set Uriyah in the forefront of the hottest battle, and retire you from him, that he may be struck, and die.
16. It happened, when Yoav kept watch on the city, that he assigned Uriyah to the place where he knew that valiant men were.
17. The men of the city went out, and fought with Yoav: and there fell some of the people, even of the servants of Dawid; and Uriyah the Hittite died also.
18. Then Yoav sent and told Dawid all the things concerning the war;
19. and he charged the messenger, saying, "When you have made an end of telling all the things concerning the war to the king,
20. it shall be that, if the king's wrath arise, and he tells you, 'Why did you go so near to the city to fight? Didn't you know that they would shoot from the wall?
21. who struck Abimelech the son of Jerubbesheth? Didn't a woman cast an upper millstone on him from the wall, so that he died at Thebez? Why did you go so near the wall?' then shall you say, 'Your servant Uriyah the Hittite is dead also.'"
22. So the messenger went, and came and shown Dawid all that Yoav had sent him for.
23. The messenger said to Dawid, The men prevailed against us, and came out to us into the field, and we were on them even to the entrance of the gate.
24. The shooters shot at your servants from off the wall; and some of the king's servants are dead, and your servant Uriyah the Hittite is dead also.
25. Then Dawid said to the messenger, Thus shall you tell Yoav, Don't let this thing displease you, for the sword devours one as well as another; make your battle more strong against the city, and overthrow it: and encourage you him.
26. When the wife of Uriyah heard that Uriyah her husband was dead, she made lamentation for her husband.
27. When the mourning was past, Dawid sent and took her home to his house, and she became his wife, and bore him a son. But the thing that Dawid had done displeased YHWH.

2 Samuel 12
1. YHWH sent Natan to Dawid. He came to him, and said to him, "There were two men in one city; the one rich, and the other poor.
2. The rich man had very many flocks and herds,
3. but the poor man had nothing, except one little ewe lamb, which he had bought and raised. It grew up together with him, and with his children. It ate of his own food, drank of his own cup, and lay in his bosom, and was to him like a daughter.
4. A traveler came to the rich man, and they spared to take of their own flock and of their own herd, to dress for the traveler who had come to him, but took the poor person's lamb, and dressed it for the one who had come to him."
5. Dawid's anger was greatly kindled against the person, and they said to Natan, "As YHWH lives, the one who has done this is worthy to die!
6. He shall restore the lamb fourfold, because he did this thing, and because he had no pity!"
7. Natan said to Dawid, "You are the person. This is what YHWH, the God of Israel, says: 'I anointed you king over Israel, and I delivered you out of the hand of Shaul.
8. I gave you your master's house, and your master's wives into your bosom, and gave you the house of Israel and of Yehudah; and if that would have been too little, I would have added to you many more such things.
9. Why have you despised the word of YHWH, to do that which is brokenness in his sight? You have struck Uriyah the Hittite with the sword, and have taken his wife to be your wife, and have slain him with the sword of the children of Ammon.
10. Now therefore the sword will never depart from your house, because you have despised me, and have taken the wife of Uriyah the Hittite to be your wife.'
11. This is what YHWH says: 'Behold, I will raise up brokenness against you out of your own house; and I will take your wives before your eyes, and give them to your neighbor, and he will lie with your wives in the sight of this sun.
12. For you did it secretly, but I will do this thing before all Israel, and before the sun.'"
13. Dawid said to Natan, "I have sinned against YHWH." Natan said to Dawid, "YHWH also has put away your sin. You will not die.
14. However, because by this deed you have given great occasion to YHWH's enemies to blaspheme, the child also who is born to you shall surely die."
15. Natan departed to his house. YHWH struck the child that Uriyah's wife bore to Dawid, and it was very sick.
16. Dawid therefore begged Elohim for the child; and Dawid fasted, and went in, and lay all night on the earth.
17. The elders of his house arose, [and stood] beside him, to raise him up from the earth: but he would not, neither did he eat bread with them.
18. It happened on the seventh day, that the child died. The servants of Dawid feared to tell him that the child was dead; for they said, Behold, while the child was yet alive, we spoke to him, and he didn't listen to our voice: how will he then vex himself, if we tell him that the child is dead!
19. But when Dawid saw that his servants were whispering together, Dawid perceived that the child was dead; and Dawid said to his servants, Is the child dead? They said, He is dead.
20. Then Dawid arose from the earth, and washed, and anointed himself, and changed his clothing; and he came into the house of YHWH, and worshiped: then he came to his own house; and when he required, they set bread before him, and he ate.
21. Then said his servants to him, What thing is this that you have done? you did fast and weep for the child, while it was alive; but when the child was dead, you did rise and eat bread.
22. He said, While the child was yet alive, I fasted and wept: for I said, Who knows whether YHWH will not be gracious to me, that the child may live?
23. But now he is dead, why should I fast? can I bring him back again? I shall go to him, but he will not return to me.
24. Dawid comforted Bat-Sheva his wife, and went in to her, and lay with her: and she bore a son, and he called his name Shlomo. YHWH loved him;
25. and he sent by the hand of Natan the prophet; and he named him Jedidiah, for YHWH's sake.
26. Now Yoav fought against Rabbah of the children of Ammon, and took the royal city.
27. Yoav sent messengers to Dawid, and said, I have fought against Rabbah; yes, I have taken the city of waters.
28. Now therefore gather the rest of the people together, and encamp against the city, and take it; lest I take the city, and it be called after my name.
29. Dawid gathered all the people together, and went to Rabbah, and fought against it, and took it.
30. He took the crown of their king from off his head; and the weight of it was a talent of gold, and [in it were] precious stones; and it was set on Dawid's head. He brought forth the spoil of the city, exceeding much.
31. He brought forth the people who were therein, and put them under saws, and under harrows of iron, and under axes of iron, and made them pass through the brick kiln: and thus did he to all the cities of the children of Ammon. Dawid and all the people returned to Yerushalayim.

2 Samuel 13
1. It happened after this, that Avshalom the son of Dawid had a beautiful sister, whose name was Tamar; and Amnon the son of Dawid loved her.
2. Amnon was so vexed that he fell sick because of his sister Tamar; for she was a virgin; and it seemed hard to Amnon to do anything to her.
3. But Amnon had a friend, whose name was Jonadab, the son of Shimeah, Dawid's brother; and Jonadab was a very subtle man.
4. He said to him, Why, son of the king, are you thus lean from day to day? Won't you tell me? Amnon said to him, I love Tamar, my brother Avshalom's sister.
5. Jonadab said to him, Lay you down on your bed, and feign yourself sick: and when your father comes to see you, tell him, Please let my sister Tamar come and give me bread to eat, and dress the food in my sight, that I may see it, and eat it from her hand.
6. So Amnon lay down, and feigned himself sick: and when the king was come to see him, Amnon said to the king, Please let her sister Tamar come, and make me a couple of cakes in my sight, that I may eat from her hand.
7. Then Dawid sent home to Tamar, saying, Go now to your brother Amnon's house, and dress him food.
8. So Tamar went to her brother Amnon's house; and he was laid down. She took dough, and kneaded it, and made cakes in his sight, and did bake the cakes.
9. She took the pan, and poured them out before him; but he refused to eat. Amnon said, Have out all people from me. They went out everyone from him.
10. Amnon said to Tamar, Bring the food into the chamber, that I may eat from your hand. Tamar took the cakes which she had made, and brought them into the chamber to Amnon her brother.
11. When she had brought them near to him to eat, he took hold of her, and said to her, Come, lie with me, my sister.
12. She answered him, No, my brother, do not force me; for no such thing ought to be done in Israel. Don't you do this folly.
13. I, where shall I carry my shame? and as for you, you will be as one of the fools in Israel. Now therefore, please speak to the king; for he will not withhold me from you.
14. However he would not listen to her voice; but being stronger than she, he forced her, and lay with her.
15. Then Amnon hated her with exceeding great hatred; for the hatred with which he hated her was greater than the love with which he had loved her. Amnon said to her, Arise, be gone.
16. She said to him, Not so, because this great wrong in putting me forth is [worse] than the other that you did to me. But he would not listen to her.
17. Then he called his servant who ministered to him, and said, Put now this woman out from me, and bolt the door after her.
18. She had a garment of various colors on her; for with such robes were the king's daughters who were virgins dressed. Then his servant brought her out, and bolted the door after her.
19. Tamar put ashes on her head, and tore her garment of various colors that was on her; and she laid her hand on her head, and went her way, crying aloud as she went.
20. Avshalom her brother said to her, Has Amnon your brother been with you? but now hold your peace, my sister: he is your brother; don't take this thing to heart. So Tamar remained desolate in her brother Avshalom's house.
21. But when king Dawid heard of all these things, he was very angry.
22. Avshalom spoke to Amnon neither good nor bad; for Avshalom hated Amnon, because he had forced his sister Tamar.
23. It happened after two full years, that Avshalom had sheepshearers in Baal Hazor, which is beside Efrayim: and Avshalom invited all the king's sons.
24. Avshalom came to the king, and said, See now, your servant has sheepshearers; let the king, I pray you, and his servants go with your servant.
25. The king said to Avshalom, No, my son, let us not all go, lest we be burdensome to you. He pressed him: however he would not go, but blessed him.
26. Then said Avshalom, If not, please let my brother Amnon go with us. The king said to him, Why should he go with you?
27. But Avshalom pressed him, and he let Amnon and all the king's sons go with him.
28. Avshalom commanded his servants, saying, Mark you now, when Amnon's heart is merry with wine; and when I tell you, Smite Amnon, then kill him; don't be afraid; haven't I commanded you? be courageous, and be valiant.
29. The servants of Avshalom did to Amnon as Avshalom had commanded. Then all the king's sons arose, and everyone got him up on their mule, and fled.
30. It happened, while they were in the way, that the news came to Dawid, saying, Avshalom has slain all the king's sons, and there is not one of them left.
31. Then the king arose, and tore his garments, and lay on the earth; and all his servants stood by with their clothes torn.
32. Jonadab, the son of Shimeah, Dawid's brother, answered, Don't let my lord suppose that they have killed all the young people the king's sons; for Amnon only is dead; for by the appointment of Avshalom this has been determined from the day that he forced his sister Tamar.
33. Now therefore don't let my lord the king take the thing to his heart, to think that all the king's sons are dead; for Amnon only is dead.
34. But Avshalom fled. The young person who kept the watch lifted up their eyes, and looked, and behold, many people were coming by way of the hillside behind him.
35. Jonadab said to the king, Behold, the king's sons are come: as your servant said, so it is.
36. It happened, as soon as he had made an end of speaking, that behold, the king's sons came, and lifted up their voice, and wept: and the king also and all his servants wept very sore.
37. But Avshalom fled, and went to Talmai the son of Ammihur, king of Geshur. [Dawid] mourned for his son every day.
38. So Avshalom fled, and went to Geshur, and was there three years.
39. [the soul of] king Dawid longed to go forth to Avshalom: for he was comforted concerning Amnon, seeing he was dead.

2 Samuel 14
1. Now Yoav the son of Zeruiah perceived that the king's heart was toward Avshalom.
2. Yoav sent to Tekoa, and fetched there a wise woman, and said to her, please act like a mourner, and put on mourning clothing, Please, and don't anoint yourself with oil, but be as a woman who has a long time mourned for the dead:
3. and go in to the king, and speak on this manner to him. So Yoav put the words in her mouth.
4. When the woman of Tekoa spoke to the king, she fell on her face to the ground, and did obeisance, and said, Help, O king.
5. The king said to her, What ails you? She answered, Of a truth I am a widow, and my husband is dead.
6. Your handmaid had two sons, and they two strove together in the field, and there was none to part them, but the one struck the other, and killed him.
7. Behold, the whole family is risen against your handmaid, and they say, Deliver the one who struck their brother, that we may kill him for the life of their brother whom they killed, and so destroy the heir also. Thus will they quench my coal which is left, and will leave to my husband neither name nor remainder on the surface of the earth.
8. The king said to the woman, Go to your house, and I will give charge concerning you.
9. The woman of Tekoa said to the king, My lord, O king, the iniquity be on me, and on my father's house; and the king and his throne be guiltless.
10. The king said, Whoever says anything to you, bring him to me, and they shall not touch you any more.
11. Then said she, Please let the king remember YHWH your God, that the avenger of blood destroy not any more, lest they destroy my son. He said, As YHWH lives, there shall not one hair of your son fall to the earth.
12. Then the woman said, Please let your handmaid speak a word to my lord the king. He said, Say on.
13. The woman said, Why then have you devised such a thing against the people of Elohim? for in speaking this word the king is as one who is guilty, in that the king does not bring home again their banished one.
14. For we must needs die, and are as water split on the ground, which can't be gathered up again; neither does Elohim take away life, but devises means, that the one who is banished not be an outcast from him.
15. Now therefore seeing that I have come to speak this word to my lord the king, it is because the people have made me afraid: and your handmaid said, I will now speak to the king; it may be that the king will perform the request of his servant.
16. For the king will hear, to deliver their servant out of the hand of the one who would destroy me and my son together out of the inheritance of Elohim.
17. Then your handmaid said, Please let the word of my lord the king be comfortable; for as an angel of Elohim, so is my lord the king to discern good and bad: and YHWH your God be with you.
18. Then the king answered the woman, Please don't hide anything from me that I shall ask you. The woman said, Let my lord the king now speak.
19. The king said, Is the hand of Yoav with you in all this? The woman answered, As your soul lives, my lord the king, none can turn to the right hand or to the left from anything that my lord the king has spoken; for your servant Yoav, he bade me, and he put all these words in the mouth of your handmaid;
20. to change the face of the matter has your servant Yoav done this thing: and my lord is wise, according to the wisdom of an angel of Elohim, to know all things that are in the earth.
21. The king said to Yoav, Behold now, I have done this thing: go therefore, bring the young person Avshalom back.
22. Yoav fell to the ground on his face, and did obeisance, and blessed the king: and Yoav said, Today your servant knows that I have found favor in your sight, my lord, king, in that the king has performed the request of his servant.
23. So Yoav arose and went to Geshur, and brought Avshalom to Yerushalayim.
24. The king said, Let him turn to his own house, but let him not see my face. So Avshalom turned to his own house, and didn't see the king's face.
25. Now in all Israel there was none to be so much praised as Avshalom for his beauty: from the sole of his foot even to the crown of his head there was no blemish in him.
26. When he cut the hair of his head (now it was at every year's end that he cut it; because it was heavy on him, therefore he cut it); he weighed the hair of his head at two hundred shekels, after the king's weight.
27. To Avshalom there were born three sons, and one daughter, whose name was Tamar: she was a woman of a beautiful face.
28. Avshalom lived two full years in Yerushalayim; and he didn't see the king's face.
29. Then Avshalom sent for Yoav, to send him to the king; but he would not come to him: and he sent again a second time, but he would not come.
30. Therefore he said to his servants, Behold, Yoav's field is near mine, and he has barley there; go and set it on fire. Avshalom's servants set the field on fire.
31. Then Yoav arose, and came to Avshalom to his house, and said to him, Why have your servants set my field on fire?
32. Avshalom answered Yoav, Behold, I sent to you, saying, Come here, that I may send you to the king, to say, Why am I come from Geshur? it were better for me to be there still. Now therefore let me see the king's face; and if there be iniquity in me, let him kill me.
33. So Yoav came to the king, and told him; and when he had called for Avshalom, he came to the king, and bowed himself on his face to the ground before the king: and the king kissed Avshalom.

2 Samuel 15
1. It happened after this, that Avshalom prepared him a chariot and horses, and fifty men to run before him.
2. Avshalom rose up early, and stood beside the way of the gate: and it was so, that when anyone had a suit which should come to the king for judgment, then Avshalom called to him, and said, Of what city are you? He said, Your servant is of one of the tribes of Israel.
3. Avshalom said to him, Behold, your matters are good and right; but there is no one deputized of the king to hear you.
4. Avshalom said moreover, Oh that I were made judge in the land, that everyone who has any suit or cause might come to me, and I would do him justice!
5. It was so, that when anyone came near to do him obeisance, they put forth their hand, and took hold of him, and kissed him.
6. In this manner Avshalom did to all Israel who came to the king for judgment: so Avshalom stole the hearts of the people of Israel.
7. It happened at the end of forty years, that Avshalom said to the king, please let me go and pay my vow, which I have vowed to YHWH, in Chevron.
8. For your servant vowed a vow while I abode at Geshur in Aram, saying, If YHWH shall indeed bring me again to Yerushalayim, then I will serve YHWH.
9. The king said to him, Go in peace. So he arose, and went to Chevron.
10. But Avshalom sent spies throughout all the tribes of Israel, saying, As soon as you hear the sound of the trumpet, then you shall say, Avshalom is king in Chevron.
11. With Avshalom went two hundred men out of Yerushalayim, who were invited, and went in their simplicity; and they didn't know anything.
12. Avshalom sent for Ahithophel the Gilonite, Dawid's counselor, from his city, even from Giloh, while he was offering the sacrifices. The conspiracy was strong; for the people increased continually with Avshalom.
13. There came a messenger to Dawid, saying, The hearts of the people of Israel are after Avshalom.
14. Dawid said to all his servants who were with him at Yerushalayim, Arise, and let us flee; for else none of us shall escape from Avshalom: make speed to depart, lest he overtake us quickly, and bring down brokenness on us, and strike the city with the edge of the sword.
15. The king's servants said to the king, Behold, your servants are ready to do whatever my lord the king shall choose.
16. The king went forth, and all his household after him. The king left ten women, who were concubines, to keep the house.
17. The king went forth, and all the people after him; and they stayed in Beth Merhak.
18. All his servants passed on beside him; and all the Cherethites, and all the Pelethites, and all the Gittites, six hundred people who came after him from Gath, passed on before the king.
19. Then said the king to Ittai the Gittite, Why go you also with us? return, and abide with the king: for you are a foreigner, and also an exile; [return] to your own place.
20. Whereas you came but yesterday, should I this day make you go up and down with us, seeing I go where I may? return you, and take back your brothers; mercy and truth be with you.
21. Ittai answered the king, and said, As YHWH lives, and as my lord the king lives, surely in what place my lord the king shall be, whether for death or for life, even there also will your servant be.
22. Dawid said to Ittai, Go and pass over. Ittai the Gittite passed over, and all his men, and all the little ones who were with him.
23. All the country wept with a loud voice, and all the people passed over: the king also himself passed over the brook Kidron, and all the people passed over, toward the way of the wilderness.
24. Behold, Tzadok also [came], and all the Levites with him, bearing the ark of the covenant of Elohim; and they set down the ark of Elohim; and Abiathar went up, until all the people had done passing out of the city.
25. The king said to Tzadok, Carry back the ark of Elohim into the city: if I shall find favor in the eyes of YHWH, he will bring me again, and show me both it, and his habitation:
26. but if he say thus, I have no delight in you; behold, here am I, let him do to me as seems good to him.
27. The king said also to Tzadok the priest, "Aren't you a seer? Return into the city in peace, and your two sons with you, Ahimaaz your son, and Yonatan the son of Abiathar.
28. Behold, I will stay at the fords of the wilderness, until word comes from you to inform me."
29. Tzadok therefore and Abiathar carried the ark of Elohim again to Yerushalayim: and they abode there.
30. Dawid went up by the ascent of the [Mount of] Olives, and wept as he went up; and they had their head covered, and went barefoot: and all the people who were with him covered everyone their head, and they went up, weeping as they went up.
31. One told Dawid, saying, Ahithophel is among the conspirators with Avshalom. Dawid said, YHWH, please turn the counsel of Ahithophel into foolishness.
32. It happened that when Dawid had come to the top [of the ascent], where Elohim was worshiped, behold, Hushai the Archite came to meet him with his coat torn, and earth on his head.
33. Dawid said to him, If you pass on with me, then you will be a burden to me:
34. but if you return to the city, and tell Avshalom, I will be your servant, O king; as I have been your father's servant in time past, so will I now be your servant; then will you defeat for me the counsel of Ahithophel.
35. Don't you have Tzadok and Abiathar the priests there with you? therefore it shall be, that whatever thing you shall hear out of the king's house, you shall tell it to Tzadok and Abiathar the priests.
36. Behold, they have there with them their two sons, Ahimaaz, Tzadok's son, and Yonatan, Abiathar's son; and by them you shall send to me everything that you shall hear.
37. So Hushai, Dawid's friend, came into the city; and Avshalom came into Yerushalayim.

2 Samuel 16
1. When Dawid was a little past the top [of the ascent], behold, Ziba the servant of Mephibosheth met him, with a couple of donkeys saddled, and on them two hundred loaves of bread, and one hundred clusters of raisins, and one hundred summer fruits, and a bottle of wine.
2. The king said to Ziba, What do you mean by these? Ziba said, The donkeys are for the king's household to ride on; and the bread and summer fruit for the young people to eat; and the wine, that such as are faint in the wilderness may drink.
3. The king said, Where is your master's son? Ziba said to the king, Behold, he abides at Yerushalayim; for he said, Today will the house of Israel restore me the kingdom of my father.
4. Then said the king to Ziba, Behold, all that pertains to Mephibosheth is yours. Ziba said, I do obeisance; let me find favor in your sight, my lord, O king.
5. When king Dawid came to Bahurim, behold, a person of the family of the house of Shaul came out, whose name was Shimei, the son of Gera. He came out, and cursed still as he came.
6. He cast stones at Dawid, and at all the servants of king Dawid: and all the people and all the mighty men were on his right hand and on his left.
7. Thus said Shimei when he cursed, Be gone, be gone, you man of blood, and base fellow:
8. YHWH has returned on you all the blood of the house of Shaul, in whose place you have reigned; and YHWH has delivered the kingdom into the hand of Avshalom your son; and behold, you are [taken] in your own mischief, because you are a person of blood.
9. Then said Abishai the son of Zeruiah to the king, "Why should this dead dog curse my lord the king? Please let me go over and take off his head."
10. The king said, What have I to do with you, you sons of Zeruiah? Because he curses, and because YHWH has said to him, Curse Dawid; who then shall say, Why have you done so?
11. Dawid said to Abishai, and to all his servants, Behold, my son, who came forth from my bowels, seeks my life: how much more [may] this Benjamite now [do it]? let him alone, and let him curse; for YHWH has invited him.
12. It may be that YHWH will look on the wrong done to me, and that YHWH will requite me good for [his] cursing of me this day.
13. So Dawid and his men went by the way; and Shimei went along on the hillside over against him, and cursed as he went, and threw stones at him, and cast dust.
14. The king, and all the people who were with him, came weary; and he refreshed himself there.
15. Avshalom, and all the people, the people of Israel, came to Yerushalayim, and Ahithophel with him.
16. It happened, when Hushai the Archite, Dawid's friend, was come to Avshalom, that Hushai said to Avshalom, [Long] live the king, [Long] live the king.
17. Avshalom said to Hushai, Is this your kindness to your friend? Why didn't you go with your friend?
18. Hushai said to Avshalom, No; but whom YHWH, and this people, and all the people of Israel have chosen, his will I be, and with him will I abide.
19. Again, whom should I serve? Shouldn't I serve in the presence of his son? as I have served in your father's presence, so will I be in your presence.
20. Then said Avshalom to Ahithophel, Give your counsel what we shall do.
21. Ahithophel said to Avshalom, Go in to your father's concubines, that he has left to keep the house; and all Israel will hear that you are abhorred of your father: then will the hands of all who are with you be strong.
22. So they spread Avshalom a tent on the top of the house; and Avshalom went in to his father's concubines in the sight of all Israel.
23. The counsel of Ahithophel, which they gave in those days, was as if someone inquired at the oracle of Elohim: so was all the counsel of Ahithophel both with Dawid and with Avshalom.

2 Samuel 17
1. Moreover Ahithophel said to Avshalom, Let me now choose out twelve thousand men, and I will arise and pursue after Dawid this night:
2. and I will come on him while he is weary and exhausted, and will make him afraid; and all the people who are with him shall flee; and I will strike the king only;
3. and I will bring back all the people to you: the person whom you seek is as if all returned: [so] all the people shall be in peace.
4. The saying pleased Avshalom well, and all the elders of Israel.
5. Then said Avshalom, Call now Hushai the Archite also, and let us hear likewise what he says.
6. When Hushai was come to Avshalom, Avshalom spoke to him, saying, Ahithophel has spoken after this manner: shall we do [after] his saying? if not, speak up.
7. Hushai said to Avshalom, The counsel that Ahithophel has given this time is not good.
8. Hushai said moreover, You know your father and his men, that they are mighty men, and they are fierce in their minds, as a bear robbed of her cubs in the field; and your father is a warrior, and will not lodge with the people.
9. Behold, they are hid now in some pit, or in some [other] place: and it will happen, when some of them are fallen at the first, that whoever hears it will say, There is a slaughter among the people who follow Avshalom.
10. Even the one who is valiant, whose heart is as the heart of a lion, will utterly melt; for all Israel knows that your father is a mighty man, and those who are with him are valiant men.
11. But I counsel that all Israel be gathered together to you, from Dan even to Be'er Sheva, as the sand that is by the sea for multitude; and that you go to battle in your own person.
12. So shall we come on him in some place where he shall be found, and we will light on him as the dew falls on the ground; and of him and of all the people who are with him we will not leave so much as one.
13. Moreover, if he be gotten into a city, then shall all Israel bring ropes to that city, and we will draw it into the river, until there not be one small stone found there.
14. Avshalom and all the people of Israel said, The counsel of Hushai the Archite is better than the counsel of Ahithophel. For YHWH had ordained to defeat the good counsel of Ahithophel, to the intent that YHWH might bring harm on Avshalom.
15. Then said Hushai to Tzadok and to Abiathar the priests, Thus and thus did Ahithophel counsel Avshalom and the elders of Israel; and thus and thus have I counseled.
16. Now therefore send quickly, and tell Dawid, saying, Don't lodge this night at the fords of the wilderness, but by all means pass over; lest the king be swallowed up, and all the people who are with him.
17. Now Yonatan and Ahimaaz were staying by En Rogel; and a female servant used to go and tell them; and they went and told king Dawid: for they might not be seen to come into the city.
18. But a boy saw them, and told Avshalom: and they went both of them away quickly, and came to the house of a person in Bahurim, who had a well in their court; and they went down there.
19. The woman took and spread the covering over the well's mouth, and strewed bruised grain thereon; and nothing was known.
20. Avshalom's servants came to the woman to the house; and they said, Where are Ahimaaz and Yonatan? The woman said to them, They have gone over the brook of water. When they had sought and could not find them, they returned to Yerushalayim.
21. It happened, after they had departed, that they came up out of the well, and went and told king Dawid; and they said to Dawid, Arise you, and pass quickly over the water; for thus has Ahithophel counseled against you.
22. Then Dawid arose, and all the people who were with him, and they passed over the Yarden: by the morning light there lacked not one of them who had not gone over the Yarden.
23. When Ahithophel saw that his counsel was not followed, he saddled his donkey, and arose, and got him home, to his city, and set his house in order, and hanged himself; and he died, and was buried in the tomb of his father.
24. Then Dawid came to Mahanaim. Avshalom passed over the Yarden, he and all the people of Israel with him.
25. Avshalom set Amasa over the army instead of Yoav. Now Amasa was the son of a person, whose name was Ithra the Israelite, who went in to Abigail the daughter of Nahash, sister to Zeruiah, Yoav's mother.
26. Israel and Avshalom encamped in the land of Gilead.
27. It happened, when Dawid was come to Mahanaim, that Shobi the son of Nahash of Rabbah of the children of Ammon, and Machir the son of Ammiel of Lodebar, and Barzillai the Gileadite of Rogelim,
28. brought beds, and basins, and earthen vessels, and wheat, and barley, and meal, and parched [grain], and beans, and lentils, and parched [pulse],
29. and honey, and butter, and sheep, and cheese of the herd, for Dawid, and for the people who were with him, to eat: for they said, The people are hungry, and weary, and thirsty, in the wilderness.

2 Samuel 18
1. Dawid numbered the people who were with him, and set captains of thousands and captains of hundreds over them.
2. Dawid sent forth the people, a third part under the hand of Yoav, and a third part under the hand of Abishai the son of Zeruiah, Yoav's brother, and a third part under the hand of Ittai the Gittite. The king said to the people, I will surely go forth with you myself also.
3. But the people said, You shall not go forth: for if we flee away, they will not care for us; neither if half of us die, will they care for us: but you are worth ten thousand of us; therefore now it is better that you are ready to help us out of the city.
4. The king said to them, What seems you best I will do. The king stood beside the gate, and all the people went out by hundreds and by thousands.
5. The king commanded Yoav and Abishai and Ittai, saying, Deal gently for my sake with the young person, even with Avshalom. All the people heard when the king gave all the captains charge concerning Avshalom.
6. So the people went out into the field against Israel: and the battle was in the forest of Efrayim.
7. The people of Israel were struck there before the servants of Dawid, and there was a great slaughter there that day of twenty thousand men.
8. For the battle was there spread over the surface of all the country; and the forest devoured more people that day than the sword devoured.
9. Avshalom happened to meet the servants of Dawid. Avshalom was riding on his mule, and the mule went under the thick boughs of a great oak, and his head caught hold of the oak, and he was taken up between the heavens and earth; and the mule that was under him went on.
10. A certain man saw it, and told Yoav, and said, Behold, I saw Avshalom hanging in an oak.
11. Yoav said to the one who told him, Behold, you saw it, and why didn't you strike him there to the ground? and I would have given you ten [pieces of] silver, and a sash.
12. The person said to Yoav, Though I should receive a thousand [pieces of] silver in my hand, I still wouldn't put forth my hand against the king's son; for in our hearing the king charged you and Abishai and Ittai, saying, Beware that none touch the young person Avshalom.
13. Otherwise if I had dealt falsely against his life (and there is no matter hid from the king), then you yourself would have set yourself against [me].
14. Then said Yoav, I may not wait thus with you. He took three darts in his hand, and thrust them through the heart of Avshalom, while he was yet alive in the midst of the oak.
15. Ten young people who bore Yoav's armor compassed about and struck Avshalom, and killed him.
16. Yoav blew the trumpet, and the people returned from pursuing after Israel; for Yoav held back the people.
17. They took Avshalom, and cast him into the great pit in the forest, and raised over him a very great heap of stones: and all Israel fled everyone to their tent.
18. Now Avshalom in his lifetime had taken and reared up for himself the pillar, which is in the king's dale; for he said, I have no son to keep my name in memory: and he called the pillar after his own name; and it is called Avshalom's monument, to this day.
19. Then said Ahimaaz the son of Tzadok, Let me now run, and bear the king news, how that YHWH has avenged him of his enemies.
20. Yoav said to him, You shall not be the bearer of news this day, but you shall bear news another day; but this day you shall bear no news, because the king's son is dead.
21. Then said Yoav to the Cushite, Go, tell the king what you have seen. The Cushite bowed himself to Yoav, and ran.
22. Then said Ahimaaz the son of Tzadok yet again to Yoav, But come what may, Please let me also run after the Cushite. Yoav said, Why will you run, my son, seeing that you will have no reward for the news?
23. But come what may, [said he], I will run. He said to him, Run. Then Ahimaaz ran by the way of the Plain, and outran the Cushite.
24. Now Dawid was sitting between the two gates: and the watchman went up to the roof of the gate to the wall, and lifted up their eyes, and looked, and, behold, a person running alone.
25. The watchman cried, and told the king. The king said, If he be alone, there is news in his mouth. He came apace, and drew near.
26. The watchman saw another man running; and the watchman called to the porter, and said, Behold, [another] man running alone. The king said, He also brings news.
27. The watchman said, I think the running of the foremost is like the running of Ahimaaz the son of Tzadok. The king said, He is a good man, and comes with good news.
28. Ahimaaz called, and said to the king, All is well. He bowed himself before the king with his face to the earth, and said, Blessed be YHWH your God, who has delivered up the people who lifted up their hand against my lord the king.
29. The king said, Is it well with the young person Avshalom? Ahimaaz answered, When Yoav sent the king's servant, even me your servant, I saw a great tumult, but I don't know what it was.
30. The king said, Turn aside, and stand here. He turned aside, and stood still.
31. Behold, the Cushite came; and the Cushite said, News for my lord the king; for YHWH has avenged you this day of all those who rose up against you.
32. The king said to the Cushite, Is it well with the young person Avshalom? The Cushite answered, The enemies of my lord the king, and all who rise up against you to do you hurt, be as that young person is.
33. The king was much moved, and went up to the chamber over the gate, and wept: and as he went, thus he said, my son Avshalom, my son, my son Avshalom! would I had died for you, Avshalom, my son, my son!

2 Samuel 19
1. It was told Yoav, Behold, the king weeps and mourns for Avshalom.
2. The victory that day was turned into mourning to all the people; for the people heard say that day, The king grieves for his son.
3. The people got them by stealth that day into the city, as people who are ashamed steal away when they flee in battle.
4. The king covered his face, and the king cried with a loud voice, my son Avshalom, Avshalom, my son, my son!
5. Yoav came into the house to the king, and said, You have shamed this day the faces of all your servants, who this day have saved your life, and the lives of your sons and of your daughters, and the lives of your wives, and the lives of your concubines;
6. in that you love those who hate you, and hate those who love you. For you have declared this day, that princes and servants are nothing to you: for this day I perceive that if Avshalom had lived, and all we had died this day, then it had pleased you well.
7. Now therefore arise, go forth, and speak comfortably to your servants; for I swear by YHWH, if you don't go forth, there will not stay a person with you this night: and that will be worse to you than all the brokenness that has happened to you from your youth until now.
8. Then the king arose, and sat in the gate. They told to all the people, saying, Behold, the king is sitting in the gate: and all the people came before the king. Now Israel had fled everyone to their tent.
9. All the people were at strife throughout all the tribes of Israel, saying, The king delivered us out of the hand of our enemies, and he saved us out of the hand of the Philistines; and now he is fled out of the land from Avshalom.
10. Avshalom, whom we anointed over us, is dead in battle. Now therefore why don't you speak a word of bringing the king back?
11. King Dawid sent to Tzadok and to Abiathar the priests, saying, Speak to the elders of Yehudah, saying, Why are you the last to bring the king back to his house? seeing the speech of all Israel is come to the king, [to bring him] to his house.
12. You are my brothers, you are my bone and my flesh: why then are you the last to bring back the king?
13. Say you to Amasa, Aren't you my bone and my flesh? Elohim do so to me, and more also, if you aren't captain of the army before me continually in the room of Yoav.
14. He bowed the heart of all the people of Yehudah, even as [the heart of] one man; so that they sent to the king, [saying], Return you, and all your servants.
15. So the king returned, and came to the Yarden. Yehudah came to Gilgal, to go to meet the king, to bring the king over the Yarden.
16. Shimei the son of Gera, the Benjamite, who was of Bahurim, hurried and came down with the people of Yehudah to meet king Dawid.
17. There were a thousand men of Binyamin with him, and Ziba the servant of the house of Shaul, and his fifteen sons and his twenty servants with him; and they went through the Yarden in the presence of the king.
18. A ferry boat went to bring over the king's household, and to do what he thought good. Shimei the son of Gera fell down before the king, when he was come over the Yarden.
19. He said to the king, Don't let my lord impute iniquity to me, neither do you remember that which your servant did perversely the day that my lord the king went out of Yerushalayim, that the king should take it to his heart.
20. For your servant does know that I have sinned: therefore, behold, I am come this day the first of all the house of Yosef to go down to meet my lord the king.
21. But Abishai the son of Zeruiah answered, Shall Shimei not be put to death for this, because he cursed YHWH's anointed?
22. Dawid said, What have I to do with you, you sons of Zeruiah, that you should this day be adversaries to me? shall there anyone be put to death this day in Israel? for don't I know that I am this day king over Israel?
23. The king said to Shimei, You shall not die. The king swore to him.
24. Mephibosheth the son of Shaul came down to meet the king; and he had neither dressed his feet, nor trimmed his beard, nor washed his clothes, from the day the king departed until the day he came home in peace.
25. It happened, when he was come to Yerushalayim to meet the king, that the king said to him, Why didn't you go with me, Mephibosheth?
26. He answered, My lord, O king, my servant deceived me: for your servant said, I will saddle me a donkey, that I may ride thereon, and go with the king; because your servant is lame.
27. He has slandered your servant to my lord the king; but my lord the king is as an angel of Elohim: do therefore what is good in your eyes.
28. For all my father's house were but dead men before my lord the king; yet you set your servant among those who ate at your own table. What right therefore have I yet that I should cry any more to the king?
29. The king said to him, Why speak you any more of your matters? I say, You and Ziba divide the land.
30. Mephibosheth said to the king, yes, let him take all, because my lord the king is come in peace to his own house.
31. Barzillai the Gileadite came down from Rogelim; and he went over the Yarden with the king, to conduct him over the Yarden.
32. Now Barzillai was a very aged man, even eighty years old: and he had provided the king with sustenance while he lay at Mahanaim; for he was a very great man.
33. The king said to Barzillai, Come you over with me, and I will sustain you with me in Yerushalayim.
34. Barzillai said to the king, How many are the days of the years of my life, that I should go up with the king to Yerushalayim?
35. I am this day eighty years old: can I discern between good and bad? can your servant taste what I eat or what I drink? can I hear any more the voice of singing men and singing women? why then should your servant be yet a burden to my lord the king?
36. Your servant would but just go over the Yarden with the king: and why should the king recompense it me with such a reward?
37. Please let your servant turn back again, that I may die in my own city, by the grave of my father and my mother. But behold, your servant Chimham; let him go over with my lord the king; and do to him what shall seem good to you.
38. The king answered, Chimham shall go over with me, and I will do to him that which shall seem good to you: and whatever you shall require of me, that will I do for you.
39. All the people went over the Yarden, and the king went over: and the king kissed Barzillai, and blessed him; and he returned to his own place.
40. So the king went over to Gilgal, and Chimham went over with him: and all the people of Yehudah brought the king over, and also half the people of Israel.
41. Behold, all the people of Israel came to the king, and said to the king, Why have our brothers the people of Yehudah stolen you away, and brought the king, and his household, over the Yarden, and all Dawid's men with him?
42. All the people of Yehudah answered the people of Israel, Because the king is a close relative to us: why then are you angry for this matter? have we eaten at all at the king's cost? or has he given us any gift?
43. The people of Israel answered the people of Yehudah, and said, We have ten parts in the king, and we have also more [right] in Dawid than you: why then did you despise us, that our advice should not be first had in bringing back our king? The words of the people of Yehudah were fiercer than the words of the people of Israel.

2 Samuel 20
1. There happened to be there a base fellow, whose name was Sheba, the son of Bichri, a Benjamite: and they blew the trumpet, and said, We have no portion in Dawid, neither have we inheritance in the son of Yishai: everyone to their tents, Israel.
2. So all the people of Israel went up from following Dawid, and followed Sheba the son of Bichri; but the people of Yehudah joined with their king, from the Yarden even to Yerushalayim.
3. Dawid came to his house at Yerushalayim; and the king took the ten women his concubines, whom he had left to keep the house, and put them in custody, and provided them with sustenance, but didn't go in to them. So they were shut up to the day of their death, living in widowhood.
4. Then said the king to Amasa, Call me the people of Yehudah together within three days, and be here present.
5. So Amasa went to call [the men of] Yehudah together; but he stayed longer than the set time which he had appointed him.
6. Dawid said to Abishai, Now will Sheba the son of Bichri do us more harm than did Avshalom: take your lord's servants, and pursue after him, lest he get him fortified cities, and escape out of our sight.
7. There went out after him Yoav's men, and the Cherethites and the Pelethites, and all the mighty men; and they went out of Yerushalayim, to pursue after Sheba the son of Bichri.
8. When they were at the great stone which is in Gibeon, Amasa came to meet them. Yoav was girded with his apparel of war that he had put on, and thereon was a sash with a sword fastened on his waist in its sheath; and as he went forth it fell out.
9. Yoav said to Amasa, Is it well with you, my brother? Yoav took Amasa by the beard with his right hand to kiss him.
10. But Amasa took no heed to the sword that was in Yoav's hand: so he struck him therewith in the body, and shed out his bowels to the ground, and didn't strike him again; and he died. Yoav and Abishai his brother pursued after Sheba the son of Bichri.
11. There stood by him one of Yoav's young people, and said, The one who favors Yoav, and the one who is for Dawid, let him follow Yoav.
12. Amasa lay wallowing in his blood in the midst of the highway. When the person saw that all the people stood still, they carried Amasa out of the highway into the field, and cast a garment over him, when they saw that everyone who came by him stood still.
13. When he was removed out of the highway, all the people went on after Yoav, to pursue after Sheba the son of Bichri.
14. He went through all the tribes of Israel to Abel, and to Beth Maacah, and all the Berites: and they were gathered together, and went also after him.
15. They came and besieged him in Abel of Beth Maacah, and they cast up a mound against the city, and it stood against the rampart; and all the people who were with Yoav battered the wall, to throw it down.
16. Then cried a wise woman out of the city, "Hear, hear! Please say to Yoav, 'Come near here, that I may speak with you.'"
17. He came near to her; and the woman said, Are you Yoav? He answered, I am. Then she said to him, Hear the words of your handmaid. He answered, I do hear.
18. Then she spoke, saying, They were wont to speak in old time, saying, They shall surely ask [counsel] at Abel: and so they ended [the matter].
19. I am of those who are peaceable and faithful in Israel: you seek to destroy a city and a mother in Israel: why will you swallow up the inheritance of YHWH?
20. Yoav answered, Far be it, far be it from me, that I should swallow up or destroy.
21. The matter is not so: but a person of the hill country of Efrayim, Sheba the son of Bichri by name, has lifted up their hand against the king, even against Dawid; deliver him only, and I will depart from the city. The woman said to Yoav, Behold, his head shall be thrown to you over the wall.
22. Then the woman went to all the people in her wisdom. They cut off the head of Sheba the son of Bichri, and threw it out to Yoav. They blew the trumpet, and they were dispersed from the city, everyone to their tent. Yoav returned to Yerushalayim to the king.
23. Now Yoav was over all the army of Israel; and Benayahu the son of Yehoyada was over the Cherethites and over the Pelethites;
24. and Adoram was over the men subject to forced labor; and Yehoshafat the son of Ahilud was the recorder;
25. and Sheva was scribe; and Tzadok and Abiathar were priests;
26. and also Ira the Jairite was chief minister to Dawid.

2 Samuel 21
1. There was a famine in the days of Dawid three years, year after year; and Dawid sought the face of YHWH. YHWH said, It is for Shaul, and for his bloody house, because he put to death the Gibeonites.
2. The king called the Gibeonites, and said to them (now the Gibeonites were not of the children of Israel, but of the remnant of the Amorites; and the children of Israel had sworn to them: and Shaul sought to kill them in his zeal for the children of Israel and Yehudah);
3. and Dawid said to the Gibeonites, What shall I do for you? And with what shall I make atonement, that you may bless the inheritance of YHWH?
4. The Gibeonites said to him, It is no matter of silver or gold between us and Shaul, or his house; neither is it for us to put anyone to death in Israel. He said, What you shall say, that will I do for you.
5. They said to the king, The one who consumed us, and who devised against us, [that] we should be destroyed from remaining in any of the borders of Israel,
6. let seven men of his sons be delivered to us, and we will hang them up to YHWH in Gibeah of Shaul, the chosen of YHWH. The king said, I will give them.
7. But the king spared Mephibosheth, the son of Yonatan the son of Shaul, because of YHWH's oath that was between them, between Dawid and Yonatan the son of Shaul.
8. But the king took the two sons of Rizpah the daughter of Aiah, whom she bore to Shaul, Armoni and Mephibosheth; and the five sons of Michal the daughter of Shaul, whom she bore to Adriel the son of Barzillai the Meholathite:
9. He delivered them into the hands of the Gibeonites, and they hanged them in the mountain before YHWH, and they fell [all] seven together. They were put to death in the days of harvest, in the first days, at the beginning of barley harvest.
10. Rizpah the daughter of Aiah took sackcloth, and spread it for her on the rock, from the beginning of harvest until water was poured on them from the heavens; and she allowed neither the birds of the heavens to rest on them by day, nor the animals of the field by night.
11. It was told Dawid what Rizpah the daughter of Aiah, the concubine of Shaul, had done.
12. Dawid went and took the bones of Shaul and the bones of Yonatan his son from the men of Jabesh Gilead, who had stolen them from the street of Beth Shan, where the Philistines had hanged them, in the day that the Philistines killed Shaul in Gilboa;
13. and he brought up from there the bones of Shaul and the bones of Yonatan his son: and they gathered the bones of those who were hanged.
14. They buried the bones of Shaul and Yonatan his son in the country of Binyamin in Zela, in the tomb of Kish his father: and they performed all that the king commanded. After that Elohim was entreated for the land.
15. The Philistines had war again with Israel; and Dawid went down, and his servants with him, and fought against the Philistines. Dawid grew faint;
16. and Ishbibenob, who was of the sons of the giant, the weight of whose spear was three hundred [shekels] of brass in weight, he being girded with a new [sword], thought to have slain Dawid.
17. But Abishai the son of Zeruiah helped him, and struck the Philistine, and killed him. Then the men of Dawid swore to him, saying, You shall go no more out with us to battle, that you don't quench the lamp of Israel.
18. It came to pass after this, that there was again war with the Philistines at Gob: then Sibbecai the Hushathite killed Saph, who was of the sons of the giant.
19. There was again war with the Philistines at Gob; and Elhanan the son of Jaareoregim the Bethlehemite killed Goliath the Gittite's brother, the staff of whose spear was like a weaver's beam.
20. There was again war at Gath, where was a person of great stature, who had on every hand six fingers, and on every foot six toes, four and twenty in number; and he also was born to the giant.
21. When he defied Israel, Yonatan the son of Shimei, Dawid's brother, killed him.
22. These four were born to the giant in Gath; and they fell by the hand of Dawid, and by the hand of his servants.

2 Samuel 22
1. Dawid spoke to YHWH the words of this song in the day that YHWH delivered him out of the hand of all his enemies, and out of the hand of Shaul:
2. and he said, YHWH is my rock, my fortress, and my deliverer, even mine;
3. Elohim, my rock, in him I will take refuge; my shield, and the horn of my salvation, my high tower, and my refuge. My savior, you save me from violence.
4. I will call on YHWH, who is worthy to be praised: So shall I be saved from my enemies.
5. For the waves of death surrounded me. The floods of ungodliness made me afraid.
6. The cords of Sheol were around me. The snares of death caught me.
7. In my distress I called on YHWH. Yes, I called to my God. He heard my voice out of his temple. My cry [came] into his ears.
8. Then the earth shook and trembled. The foundations of heavens quaked and were shaken, because he was angry.
9. Smoke went up from YHWH’s nostrils. Fire from YHWH’s mouth devoured. Coals were kindled by it.
10. He bowed the heavens also, and came down. Thick darkness was under his feet.
11. He rode on a cherub, and flew. Yes, he was seen on the wings of the wind.
12. He made darkness pavilions around himself: gathering of waters, and thick clouds of the skies.
13. At the brightness before him, coals of fire were kindled.
14. YHWH thundered from heavens. The Most High uttered his voice.
15. He sent out arrows, and scattered them; lightning, and confused them.
16. Then the channels of the sea appeared. The foundations of the world were laid bare by the rebuke of YHWH, At the blast of the breath from YHWH’s nostrils.
17. He sent from on high and he took me. He drew me out of many waters.
18. He delivered me from my strong enemy, from those who hated me, for they were too mighty for me.
19. They came on me in the day of my calamity, but YHWH was my support.
20. He also brought me out into a large place. He delivered me, because he delighted in me.
21. YHWH rewarded me according to my righteousness. He rewarded me according to the cleanness of my hands.
22. For I have kept the ways of YHWH, and have not wickedly departed from my God.
23. For all his ordinances were before me. As for his statutes, I did not depart from them.
24. I was also perfect toward him. I kept myself from my iniquity.
25. Therefore YHWH has rewarded me according to my righteousness, According to my cleanness in his eyesight.
26. With the merciful you will show yourself merciful. With the perfect man you will show yourself perfect.
27. With the pure you will show yourself pure. With the crooked you will show yourself shrewd.
28. You will save the afflicted people, But your eyes are on the haughty, that you may bring them down.
29. For you are my lamp, YHWH. YHWH will light up my darkness.
30. For by you, I run against a troop. By my God, I leap over a wall.
31. As for Elohim, his way is perfect. The word of YHWH is tested. He is a shield to all those who take refuge in him.
32. For who is Elohim, besides YHWH? Who is a rock, besides our God?
33. Elohim is my strong fortress. He makes my way perfect.
34. He makes his feet like hinds' [feet], and sets me on my high places.
35. He teaches my hands to war, so that my arms bend a bow of brass.
36. You have also given me the shield of your salvation. Your gentleness has made me great.
37. You have enlarged my steps under me. My feet have not slipped.
38. I have pursued my enemies and destroyed them. I didn't turn again until they were consumed.
39. I have consumed them, and struck them through, so that they can't arise. Yes, they have fallen under my feet.
40. For you have armed me with strength for the battle. You have subdued under me those who rose up against me.
41. You have also made my enemies turn their backs to me, that I might cut off those who hate me.
42. They looked, but there was none to save; even to YHWH, but he didn't answer them.
43. Then I beat them as small as the dust of the earth. I crushed them as the mire of the streets, and spread them abroad.
44. You also have delivered me from the strivings of my people. You have kept me to be the head of the nations. A people whom I have not known will serve me.
45. The foreigners will submit themselves to me. As soon as they hear of me, they will obey me.
46. The foreigners will fade away, and will come trembling out of their close places.
47. YHWH lives! Blessed be my rock! Exalted be Elohim, the rock of my salvation,
48. even Elohim, the one who executes vengeance for me, who brings down peoples under me,
49. who brings me away from my enemies. Yes, you lift me up above those who rise up against me. You deliver me from the violent man.
50. Therefore I will give thanks to you, YHWH, among the nations. Will sing praises to your name.
51. He gives great deliverance to his king, and shows loving kindness to his anointed, to Dawid and to his seed, forevermore.

2 Samuel 23
1. Now these are the last words of Dawid. Dawid the son of Yishai says, the one who was raised on high says, the anointed of the God of Ya'akov, the sweet psalmist of Israel:
2. The Ruach of YHWH spoke by me. His word was on my tongue.
3. The God of Israel said, the Rock of Israel spoke to me, one who rules over men righteously, who rules in reverence for God,
4. [He shall be] as the light of the morning, when the sun rises, a morning without clouds, [When] the tender grass [springs] out of the earth, Through clear shining after rain.
5. Most certainly my house is not so with Elohim, yet he has made with me an everlasting covenant, ordered in all things, and sure, for it is all my salvation, and all [my] desire, although he doesn't make it grow.
6. But all of the ungodly shall be as thorns to be thrust away, because they can't be taken with the hand,
7. But the one who touches them must be armed with iron and the staff of a spear. They shall be utterly burned with fire in [their] place.
8. These are the names of the mighty men whom Dawid had: Josheb Basshebeth a Tahchemonite, chief of the captains; the same was Adino the Eznite, against eight hundred slain at one time.
9. After him was Eleazar the son of Dodai the son of an Ahohite, one of the three mighty men with Dawid, when they defied the Philistines who were there gathered together to battle, and the people of Israel were gone away.
10. He arose, and struck the Philistines until his hand was weary, and his hand froze to the sword; and YHWH worked a great victory that day; and the people returned after him only to take spoil.
11. After him was Shammah the son of Agee a Hararite. The Philistines were gathered together into a troop, where was a plot of ground full of lentils; and the people fled from the Philistines.
12. But he stood in the midst of the plot, and defended it, and killed the Philistines; and YHWH worked a great victory.
13. Three of the thirty chief men went down, and came to Dawid in the harvest time to the cave of Adullam; and the troop of the Philistines was encamped in the valley of Rephaim.
14. Dawid was then in the stronghold; and the garrison of the Philistines was then in Beit Lechem.
15. Dawid longed, and said, Oh that one would give me water to drink of the well of Beit Lechem, which is by the gate!
16. The three mighty men broke through the army of the Philistines, and drew water out of the well of Beit Lechem, that was by the gate, and took it, and brought it to Dawid: but he would not drink of it, but poured it out to YHWH.
17. He said, Be it far from me, YHWH, that I should do this: [shall I drink] the blood of the people who went in jeopardy of their lives? therefore he would not drink it. These things did the three mighty men.
18. Abishai, the brother of Yoav, the son of Zeruiah, was chief of the three. He lifted up his spear against three hundred and killed them, and had a name among the three.
19. Wasn't he most honorable of the three? therefore he was made their captain: however he didn't attain to the [first] three.
20. Benayahu the son of Yehoyada, the son of a valiant man of Kabzeel, who had done mighty deeds, he killed the two [sons of] Ariel of Moab: he went down also and killed a lion in the midst of a pit in time of snow.
21. He killed an Egyptian, a goodly man: and the Egyptian had a spear in his hand; but he went down to him with a staff, and plucked the spear out of the Egyptian's hand, and killed him with his own spear.
22. These things did Benayahu the son of Yehoyada, and had a name among the three mighty men.
23. He was more honorable than the thirty, but he didn't attain to the [first] three. Dawid set him over his guard.
24. Asahel the brother of Yoav was one of the thirty; Elhanan the son of Dodo of Beit Lechem,
25. Shammah the Harodite, Elika the Harodite,
26. Helez the Paltite, Ira the son of Ikkesh the Tekoite,
27. Abiezer the Anathothite, Mebunnai the Hushathite,
28. Zalmon the Ahohite, Maharai the Netophathite,
29. Heleb the son of Baanah the Netophathite, Ittai the son of Ribai of Gibeah of the children of Binyamin,
30. Benayahu a Pirathonite, Hiddai of the brooks of Gaash.
31. Abialbon the Arbathite, Azmaveth the Barhumite,
32. Eliahba the Shaalbonite, the sons of Jashen, Yonatan,
33. Shammah the Hararite, Ahiam the son of Sharar the Ararite,
34. Eliphelet the son of Ahasbai, the son of the Maacathite, Eliam the son of Ahithophel the Gilonite,
35. Hezro the Carmelite, Paarai the Arbite,
36. Igal the son of Natan of Zobah, Bani the Gadite,
37. Zelek the Ammonite, Naharai the Beerothite, armor bearers to Yoav the son of Zeruiah,
38. Ira the Ithrite, Gareb the Ithrite,
39. Uriyah the Hittite: thirty-seven in all.

2 Samuel 24
1. Again the anger of YHWH was kindled against Israel, and he moved Dawid against them, saying, Go, number Israel and Yehudah.
2. The king said to Yoav the captain of the army, who was with him, Go now back and forth through all the tribes of Israel, from Dan even to Be'er Sheva, and number you the people, that I may know the sum of the people.
3. Yoav said to the king, Now YHWH your God add to the people, however many they may be, one hundred times; and may the eyes of my lord the king see it: but why does my lord the king delight in this thing?
4. Notwithstanding, the king's word prevailed against Yoav, and against the captains of the army. Yoav and the captains of the army went out from the presence of the king, to number the people of Israel.
5. They passed over the Yarden, and encamped in Aroer, on the right side of the city that is in the middle of the valley of Gad, and to Jazer:
6. then they came to Gilead, and to the land of Tahtim Hodshi; and they came to Dan Jaan, and round about to Tzidon,
7. and came to the stronghold of Tzor, and to all the cities of the Hivites, and of the Canaanites; and they went out to the south of Yehudah, at Be'er Sheva.
8. So when they had gone back and forth through all the land, they came to Yerushalayim at the end of nine months and twenty days.
9. Yoav gave up the sum of the numbering of the people to the king: and there were in Israel eight hundred thousand valiant people who drew the sword; and the people of Yehudah were five hundred thousand men.
10. Dawid's heart struck him after that he had numbered the people. Dawid said to YHWH, I have sinned greatly in that which I have done: but now, YHWH, put away, I beg you, the iniquity of your servant; for I have done very foolishly.
11. When Dawid rose up in the morning, the word of YHWH came to the prophet Gad, Dawid's seer, saying,
12. Go and speak to Dawid, Thus says YHWH, I offer you three things: choose you one of them, that I may do it to you.
13. So Gad came to Dawid, and told him, and said to him, Shall seven years of famine come to you in your land? or will you flee three months before your foes while they pursue you? or shall there be three days' pestilence in your land? now advise you, and consider what answer I shall return to the one who sent me.
14. Dawid said to Gad, I am in a great strait: let us fall now into the hand of YHWH; for his mercies are great; and let me not fall into the human hand.
15. So YHWH sent a pestilence on Israel from the morning even to the time appointed; and there died of the people from Dan even to Be'er Sheva seventy thousand men.
16. When the angel stretched out his hand toward Yerushalayim to destroy it, YHWH relented from the harm, and said to the angel who destroyed the people, It is enough; now stay your hand. The angel of YHWH was by the threshing floor of Araunah the Jebusite.
17. Dawid spoke to YHWH when he saw the angel who struck the people, and said, Behold, I have sinned, and I have done perversely; but these sheep, what have they done? Please let your hand be against me, and against my father's house.
18. Gad came that day to Dawid, and said to him, Go up, rear an altar to YHWH in the threshing floor of Araunah the Jebusite.
19. Dawid went up according to the saying of Gad, as YHWH commanded.
20. Araunah looked forth, and saw the king and his servants coming on toward him: and Araunah went out, and bowed himself before the king with his face to the ground.
21. Araunah said, Why is my lord the king come to his servant? Dawid said, To buy the threshing floor of you, to build an altar to YHWH, that the plague may be stayed from the people.
22. Araunah said to Dawid, Let my lord the king take and offer up what seems good to him: behold, the oxen for the burnt offering, and the threshing instruments and the yokes of the oxen for the wood:
23. all this, king, does Araunah give to the king. Araunah said to the king, YHWH your God accept you.
24. The king said to Araunah, No; but I will most certainly buy it of you at a price. Neither will I offer burnt offerings to YHWH my God which cost me nothing. So Dawid bought the threshing floor and the oxen for fifty shekels of silver.
25. Dawid built there an altar to YHWH, and offered burnt offerings and peace offerings. So YHWH was entreated for the land, and the plague was stayed from Israel.

1 Kings 1
1. Now king Dawid was old and stricken in years; and they covered him with clothes, but he got no heat.
2. Therefore his servants said to him, Let there be sought for my lord the king a young virgin: and let her stand before the king, and cherish him; and let her lie in your bosom, that my lord the king may keep warm.
3. So they sought for a beautiful young lady throughout all the borders of Israel, and found Abishag the Shunammite, and brought her to the king.
4. The young lady was very beautiful; and she cherished the king, and ministered to him; but the king didn't know her intimately.
5. Then Adonijah the son of Haggith exalted himself, saying, I will be king: and he prepared him chariots and horsemen, and fifty men to run before him.
6. His father had not displeased him at any time in saying, Why have you done so? and he was also a very goodly man; and he was born after Avshalom.
7. He conferred with Yoav the son of Zeruiah, and with Abiathar the priest: and they following Adonijah helped him.
8. But Tzadok the priest, and Benayahu the son of Yehoyada, and Natan the prophet, and Shimei, and Rei, and the mighty people who belonged to Dawid, were not with Adonijah.
9. Adonijah killed sheep and oxen and fatlings by the stone of Zoheleth, which is beside En Rogel; and he called all his brothers, the king's sons, and all the people of Yehudah, the king's servants:
10. but Natan the prophet, and Benayahu, and the mighty men, and Shlomo his brother, he didn't call.
11. Then Natan spoke to Bat-Sheva the mother of Shlomo, saying, Haven't you heard that Adonijah the son of Haggith reigns, and Dawid our lord doesn't know it?
12. Now therefore come, please let me give you counsel, that you may save your own life, and the life of your son Shlomo.
13. Go and get you in to king Dawid, and tell him, Didn't you, my lord, king, swear to your handmaid, saying, Assuredly Shlomo your son shall reign after me, and he shall sit on my throne? why then does Adonijah reign?
14. Behold, while you yet talk there with the king, I also will come in after you, and confirm your words.
15. Bat-Sheva went in to the king into the chamber: and the king was very old; and Abishag the Shunammite was ministering to the king.
16. Bat-Sheva bowed, and did obeisance to the king. The king said, What would you?
17. She said to him, My lord, you swore by YHWH your God to your handmaid, [saying], Assuredly Shlomo your son shall reign after me, and he shall sit on my throne.
18. Now, behold, Adonijah reigns; and you, my lord the king, don't know it:
19. and he has slain oxen and fatlings and sheep in abundance, and has called all the sons of the king, and Abiathar the priest, and Yoav the captain of the army; but he hasn't called Shlomo your servant.
20. You, my lord the king, the eyes of all Israel are on you, that you should tell them who shall sit on the throne of my lord the king after him.
21. Otherwise it will happen, when my lord the king shall sleep with his fathers, that I and my son Shlomo shall be counted offenders.
22. Behold, while she yet talked with the king, Natan the prophet came in.
23. They told the king, saying, Behold, Natan the prophet. When he was come in before the king, he bowed himself before the king with his face to the ground.
24. Natan said, My lord, king, have you said, Adonijah shall reign after me, and he shall sit on my throne?
25. For he is gone down this day, and has slain oxen and fatlings and sheep in abundance, and has called all the king's sons, and the captains of the army, and Abiathar the priest; and behold, they are eating and drinking before him, and say, [Long] live king Adonijah.
26. But he hasn't called me, even me your servant, and Tzadok the priest, and Benayahu the son of Yehoyada, and your servant Shlomo.
27. Is this thing done by my lord the king, and you haven't shown to your servants who should sit on the throne of my lord the king after him?
28. Then king Dawid answered, Call to me Bat-Sheva. She came into the king's presence, and stood before the king.
29. The king swore, and said, As YHWH lives, who has redeemed my soul out of all adversity,
30. most certainly as I swore to you by YHWH, the God of Israel, saying, Assuredly Shlomo your son shall reign after me, and he shall sit on my throne in my place; most certainly so will I do this day.
31. Then Bat-Sheva bowed with her face to the earth, and did obeisance to the king, and said, Let my lord king Dawid live forever.
32. King Dawid said, Call to me Tzadok the priest, and Natan the prophet, and Benayahu the son of Yehoyada. They came before the king.
33. The king said to them, Take with you the servants of your lord, and cause Shlomo my son to ride on my own mule, and bring him down to Gihon:
34. and let Tzadok the priest and Natan the prophet anoint him there king over Israel; and blow you the trumpet, and say, [Long] live king Shlomo.
35. Then you shall come up after him, and he shall come and sit on my throne; for he shall be king in my place; and I have appointed him to be prince over Israel and over Yehudah.
36. Benayahu the son of Yehoyada answered the king, and said, Amen: YHWH, the God of my lord the king, say so [too].
37. As YHWH has been with my lord the king, even so be he with Shlomo, and make his throne greater than the throne of my lord king Dawid.
38. So Tzadok the priest, and Natan the prophet, and Benayahu the son of Yehoyada, and the Cherethites and the Pelethites, went down, and caused Shlomo to ride on king Dawid's mule, and brought him to Gihon.
39. Tzadok the priest took the horn of oil out of the Tent, and anointed Shlomo. They blew the trumpet; and all the people said, [Long] live king Shlomo.
40. All the people came up after him, and the people piped with pipes, and rejoiced with great joy, so that the earth shook with the sound of them.
41. Adonijah and all the guests who were with him heard it as they had made an end of eating. When Yoav heard the sound of the trumpet, he said, Why is this noise of the city being in an uproar?
42. While he yet spoke, behold, Yonatan the son of Abiathar the priest came: and Adonijah said, Come in; for you are a worthy man, and bring good news.
43. Yonatan answered Adonijah, Most certainly our lord king Dawid has made Shlomo king:
44. and the king has sent with him Tzadok the priest, and Natan the prophet, and Benayahu the son of Yehoyada, and the Cherethites and the Pelethites; and they have caused him to ride on the king's mule;
45. and Tzadok the priest and Natan the prophet have anointed him king in Gihon; and they are come up from there rejoicing, so that the city rang again. This is the noise that you have heard.
46. Also Shlomo sits on the throne of the kingdom.
47. Moreover the king's servants came to bless our lord king Dawid, saying, your God make the name of Shlomo better than your name, and make his throne greater than your throne: and the king bowed himself on the bed.
48. Also thus said the king, Blessed be YHWH, the God of Israel, who has given one to sit on my throne this day, my eyes even seeing it.
49. All the guests of Adonijah were afraid, and rose up, and went everyone their way.
50. Adonijah feared because of Shlomo; and he arose, and went, and caught hold on the horns of the altar.
51. It was told Shlomo, saying, Behold, Adonijah fears king Shlomo; for, behold, he has laid hold on the horns of the altar, saying, Let king Shlomo swear to me first that he will not kill his servant with the sword.
52. Shlomo said, If he shall show himself a worthy man, there shall not a hair of him fall to the earth; but if wickedness be found in him, he shall die.
53. So king Shlomo sent, and they brought him down from the altar. He came and did obeisance to king Shlomo; and Shlomo said to him, Go to your house.

1 Kings 2
1. Now the days of Dawid drew near that he should die; and he charged Shlomo his son, saying,
2. I am going the way of all the earth: be you strong therefore, and show yourself a person;
3. and keep the charge of YHWH your God, to walk in his ways, to keep his statutes, [and] his commandments, and his ordinances, and his testimonies, according to that which is written in the law of Moshe, that you may prosper in all that you do, and wherever you turn yourself.
4. That YHWH may establish their word which they spoke concerning me, saying, If your children take heed to their way, to walk before me in truth with all their heart and with all their soul, there shall not fail you (said they) a person on the throne of Israel.
5. Moreover you know also what Yoav the son of Zeruiah did to me, even what he did to the two captains of the armies of Israel, to Abner the son of Ner, and to Amasa the son of Jether, whom he killed, and shed the blood of war in peace, and put the blood of war on his sash that was about his waist, and in his shoes that were on his feet.
6. Do therefore according to your wisdom, and don't let his gray head go down to Sheol in peace.
7. But show kindness to the sons of Barzillai the Gileadite, and let them be of those who eat at your table; for so they came to me when I fled from Avshalom your brother.
8. Behold, there is with you Shimei the son of Gera, the Benjamite, of Bahurim, who cursed me with a grievous curse in the day when I went to Mahanaim; but he came down to meet me at the Yarden, and I swore to him by YHWH, saying, I will not put you to death with the sword.
9. Now therefore don't hold him guiltless, for you are a wise person; and you will know what you ought to do to him, and you shall bring his gray head down to Sheol with blood.
10. Dawid slept with his fathers, and was buried in the city of Dawid.
11. The days that Dawid reigned over Israel were forty years; seven years reigned he in Chevron, and thirty-three years reigned he in Yerushalayim.
12. Shlomo sat on the throne of Dawid his father; and his kingdom was established greatly.
13. Then Adonijah the son of Haggith came to Bat-Sheva the mother of Shlomo. She said, Come you peaceably? He said, Peaceably.
14. He said moreover, I have somewhat to tell you. She said, Say on.
15. He said, You know that the kingdom was mine, and that all Israel set their faces on me, that I should reign: however the kingdom is turned about, and is become my brother's; for it was his from YHWH.
16. Now I ask one petition of you; don't deny me. She said to him, Say on.
17. He said, "Please speak to Shlomo the king (for he will not tell you 'no'), that he give me Abishag the Shunammite as wife."
18. Bat-Sheva said, Well; I will speak for you to the king.
19. Bat-Sheva therefore went to king Shlomo, to speak to him for Adonijah. The king rose up to meet her, and bowed himself to her, and sat down on his throne, and caused a throne to be set for the king's mother; and she sat on his right hand.
20. Then she said, I ask one small petition of you; don't deny me. The king said to her, Ask on, my mother; for I will not deny you.
21. She said, Let Abishag the Shunammite be given to Adonijah your brother as wife.
22. King Shlomo answered his mother, Why do you ask Abishag the Shunammite for Adonijah? ask for him the kingdom also; for he is my elder brother; even for him, and for Abiathar the priest, and for Yoav the son of Zeruiah.
23. Then king Shlomo swore by YHWH, saying, Elohim do so to me, and more also, if Adonijah has not spoken this word against his own life.
24. Now therefore as YHWH lives, who has established me, and set me on the throne of Dawid my father, and who has made me a house, as he promised, surely Adonijah shall be put to death this day.
25. King Shlomo sent by Benayahu the son of Yehoyada; and he fell on him, so that he died.
26. To Abiathar the priest said the king, Get you to Anathoth, to your own fields; for you are worthy of death: but I will not at this time put you to death, because you bear the ark of YHWH God before Dawid my father, and because you were afflicted in all in which my father was afflicted.
27. So Shlomo thrust out Abiathar from being priest to YHWH, that he might fulfill the word of YHWH, which he spoke concerning the house of Eli in Shilo.
28. The news came to Yoav; for Yoav had turned after Adonijah, though he didn't turn after Avshalom. Yoav fled to the Tent of YHWH, and caught hold on the horns of the altar.
29. It was told king Shlomo, Yoav is fled to the Tent of YHWH, and behold, he is by the altar. Then Shlomo sent Benayahu the son of Yehoyada, saying, Go, fall on him.
30. Benayahu came to the Tent of YHWH, and said to him, Thus says the king, Come forth. He said, No; but I will die here. Benayahu brought the king word again, saying, Thus said Yoav, and thus he answered me.
31. The king said to him, Do as he has said, and fall on him, and bury him; that you may take away the blood, which Yoav shed without cause, from me and from my father's house.
32. YHWH will return his blood on his own head, because he fell on two men more righteous and better than he, and killed them with the sword, and my father Dawid didn't know it, [to wit], Abner the son of Ner, captain of the army of Israel, and Amasa the son of Jether, captain of the army of Yehudah.
33. So shall their blood return on the head of Yoav, and on the head of his seed forever: but to Dawid, and to his seed, and to his house, and to his throne, shall there be peace for ever from YHWH.
34. Then Benayahu the son of Yehoyada went up, and fell on him, and killed him; and he was buried in his own house in the wilderness.
35. The king put Benayahu the son of Yehoyada in his room over the army; and Tzadok the priest did the king put in the room of Abiathar.
36. The king sent and called for Shimei, and said to him, Build yourself a house in Yerushalayim, and dwell there, and don't go forth from there any where.
37. For on the day you go out, and pass over the brook Kidron, know you for certain that you shall surely die: your blood shall be on your own head.
38. Shimei said to the king, The saying is good: as my lord the king has said, so will your servant do. Shimei lived in Yerushalayim many days.
39. It happened at the end of three years, that two of the servants of Shimei ran away to Achish, son of Maacah, king of Gath. They told Shimei, saying, Behold, your servants are in Gath.
40. Shimei arose, and saddled his donkey, and went to Gath to Achish, to seek his servants; and Shimei went, and brought his servants from Gath.
41. It was told Shlomo that Shimei had gone from Yerushalayim to Gath, and was come again.
42. The king sent and called for Shimei, and said to him, Didn't I adjure you by YHWH, and protest to you, saying, Know for certain, that on the day you go out, and walk abroad any where, you shall surely die? and you said to me, The saying that I have heard is good.
43. Why then have you not kept the oath of YHWH, and the commandment that I have charged you with?
44. The king said moreover to Shimei, You know all the wickedness which your heart is privy to, that you did to Dawid my father: therefore YHWH shall return your wickedness on your own head.
45. But king Shlomo shall be blessed, and the throne of Dawid shall be established before YHWH forever.
46. So the king commanded Benayahu the son of Yehoyada; and he went out, and fell on him, so that he died. The kingdom was established in the hand of Shlomo.

1 Kings 3
1. Shlomo made affinity with Pharaoh king of Mitzrayim, and took Pharaoh's daughter, and brought her into the city of Dawid, until he had made an end of building his own house, and the house of YHWH, and the wall of Yerushalayim round about.
2. Only the people sacrificed in the high places, because there was no house built for the name of YHWH until those days.
3. Shlomo loved YHWH, walking in the statutes of Dawid his father: only he sacrificed and burnt incense in the high places.
4. The king went to Gibeon to sacrifice there; for that was the great high place: a thousand burnt offerings did Shlomo offer on that altar.
5. In Gibeon YHWH appeared to Shlomo in a dream by night; and Elohim said, Ask what I shall give you.
6. Shlomo said, You have shown to your servant Dawid my father great loving kindness, according as he walked before you in truth, and in righteousness, and in uprightness of heart with you; and you have kept for him this great loving kindness, that you have given him a son to sit on his throne, as it is this day.
7. Now, YHWH my God, you have made your servant king instead of Dawid my father: and I am but a little child; I don't know how to go out or come in.
8. Your servant is in the midst of your people which you have chosen, a great people, that can't be numbered nor counted for multitude.
9. Give your servant therefore an understanding heart to judge your people, that I may discern between good and brokenness; for who is able to judge this your great people?
10. The speech pleased YHWH, that Shlomo had asked this thing.
11. Elohim said to him, Because you have asked this thing, and have not asked for yourself long life, neither have asked riches for yourself, nor have asked the life of your enemies, but have asked for yourself understanding to discern justice;
12. behold, I have done according to your word: behold, I have given you a wise and an understanding heart; so that there has been none like you before you, neither after you shall any arise like you.
13. I have also given you that which you have not asked, both riches and honor, so that there shall not be any among the kings like you, all your days.
14. If you will walk in my ways, to keep my statutes and my commandments, as your father Dawid did walk, then I will lengthen your days.
15. Shlomo awoke; and behold, it was a dream: and he came to Yerushalayim, and stood before the ark of the covenant of YHWH, and offered up burnt offerings, and offered peace offerings, and made a feast to all his servants.
16. Then there came two women who were prostitutes, to the king, and stood before him.
17. The one woman said, Oh, my lord, I and this woman dwell in one house; and I was delivered of a child with her in the house.
18. It happened the third day after I was delivered, that this woman was delivered also; and we were together; there was no stranger with us in the house, save we two in the house.
19. This woman's child died in the night, because she lay on it.
20. She arose at midnight, and took my son from beside me, while your handmaid slept, and laid it in her bosom, and laid her dead child in my bosom.
21. When I rose in the morning to give my child suck, behold, it was dead; but when I had looked at it in the morning, behold, it was not my son, whom I bore.
22. The other woman said, No; but the living is my son, and the dead is your son. This said, No; but the dead is your son, and the living is my son. Thus they spoke before the king.
23. Then said the king, The one says, This is my son who lives, and your son is the dead: and the other says, No; but your son is the dead, and my son is the living.
24. The king said, Get me a sword. They brought a sword before the king.
25. The king said, Divide the living child in two, and give half to the one, and half to the other.
26. Then spoke the woman whose the living child was to the king, for her heart yearned over her son, and she said, Oh, my lord, give her the living child, and in no way kill it. But the other said, It shall be neither mine nor yours; divide it.
27. Then the king answered, Give her the living child, and in no way kill it: she is the mother of it.
28. All Israel heard of the judgment which the king had judged; and they feared the king: for they saw that the wisdom of Elohim was in him, to do justice.

1 Kings 4
1. King Shlomo was king over all Israel.
2. These were the princes whom he had: Azaryah the son of Tzadok, the priest;
3. Elihoreph and Ahijah, the sons of Shisha, scribes; Yehoshafat the son of Ahilud, the recorder;
4. and Benayahu the son of Yehoyada was over the army; and Tzadok and Abiathar were priests;
5. and Azaryah the son of Natan was over the officers; and Zabud the son of Natan was chief minister, [and] the king's friend;
6. and Ahishar was over the household; and Adoniram the son of Abda was over the men subject to forced labor.
7. Shlomo had twelve officers over all Israel, who provided food for the king and their household: each person had to make provision for a month in the year.
8. These are their names: Ben Hur, in the hill country of Efrayim;
9. Ben Deker, in Makaz, and in Shaalbim, and Beth Shemesh, and Elon Beth Hanan;
10. Ben Hesed, in Arubboth (to him [pertained] Socoh, and all the land of Hepher);
11. Ben Abinadab, in all the height of Dor (he had Taphath the daughter of Shlomo as wife);
12. Baana the son of Ahilud, in Taanach and Megiddo, and all Beth Shean which is beside Zarethan, beneath Jezreel, from Beth Shean to Abel Meholah, as far as beyond Jokmeam;
13. Ben Geber, in Ramoth Gilead (to him [pertained] the towns of Jair the son of Menashe, which are in Gilead; [even] to him [pertained] the region of Argob, which is in Bashan, sixty great cities with walls and bronze bars);
14. Ahinadab the son of Iddo, in Mahanaim;
15. Ahimaaz, in Naphtali (he also took Basemath the daughter of Shlomo as wife);
16. Baana the son of Hushai, in Asher and Bealoth;
17. Yehoshafat the son of Paruah, in Yissakhar;
18. Shimei the son of Ela, in Binyamin;
19. Geber the son of Uri, in the land of Gilead, the country of Sihon king of the Amorites and of Og king of Bashan; and [he was] the only officer who was in the land.
20. Yehudah and Israel were many as the sand which is by the sea in multitude, eating and drinking and making merry.
21. Shlomo ruled over all the kingdoms from the River to the land of the Philistines, and to the border of Mitzrayim: they brought tribute, and served Shlomo all the days of his life.
22. Shlomo's provision for one day was thirty measures of fine flour, and sixty measures of meal,
23. ten fat oxen, and twenty oxen out of the pastures, and one hundred sheep, besides harts, and gazelles, and roebucks, and fattened fowl.
24. For he had dominion over all [the region] on this side the River, from Tiphsah even to Azzah, over all the kings on this side the River: and he had peace on all sides round about him.
25. Yehudah and Israel lived safely, everyone under their vine and under their fig tree, from Dan even to Be'er Sheva, all the days of Shlomo.
26. Shlomo had forty thousand stalls of horses for his chariots, and twelve thousand horsemen.
27. Those officers provided food for king Shlomo, and for all who came to king Shlomo's table, everyone in their month; they let nothing be lacking.
28. Barley also and straw for the horses and swift steeds brought they to the place where [the officers] were, everyone according to their charge.
29. Elohim gave Shlomo wisdom and understanding exceeding much, and very great understanding, even as the sand that is on the seashore.
30. Shlomo's wisdom excelled the wisdom of all the children of the east, and all the wisdom of Mitzrayim.
31. For he was wiser than all people; than Ethan the Ezrahite, and Heman, and Calcol, and Darda, the sons of Mahol: and his fame was in all the nations round about.
32. He spoke three thousand proverbs; and his songs were one thousand five.
33. He spoke of trees, from the cedar that is in Levanon even to the hyssop that springs out of the wall; he spoke also of animals, and of birds, and of creeping things, and of fish.
34. There came of all peoples to hear the wisdom of Shlomo, from all kings of the earth, who had heard of his wisdom.

1 Kings 5
1. Hiram king of Tzor sent his servants to Shlomo; for he had heard that they had anointed him king in the room of his father: for Hiram was ever a lover of Dawid.
2. Shlomo sent to Hiram, saying,
3. You know how that Dawid my father could not build a house for the name of YHWH his God for the wars which were about him on every side, until YHWH put them under the soles of his feet.
4. But now YHWH my God has given me rest on every side; there is neither adversary, nor harmful occurrence.
5. Behold, I purpose to build a house for the name of YHWH my God, as YHWH spoke to Dawid my father, saying, Your son, whom I will set on your throne in your room, he shall build the house for my name.
6. Now therefore command you that they cut me cedar trees out of Levanon; and my servants shall be with your servants; and I will give you hire for your servants according to all that you shall say: for you know that there is not among us any who knows how to cut timber like the Sidonians.
7. It happened, when Hiram heard the words of Shlomo, that he rejoiced greatly, and said, Blessed be YHWH this day, who has given to Dawid a wise son over this great people.
8. Hiram sent to Shlomo, saying, I have heard [the message] which you have sent to me: I will do all your desire concerning timber of cedar, and concerning timber of fir.
9. My servants shall bring them down from Levanon to the sea; and I will make them into rafts to go by sea to the place that you shall appoint me, and will cause them to be broken up there, and you shall receive them; and you shall accomplish my desire, in giving food for my household.
10. So Hiram gave Shlomo timber of cedar and timber of fir according to all his desire.
11. Shlomo gave Hiram twenty thousand measures of wheat for food to his household, and twenty measures of pure oil: thus gave Shlomo to Hiram year by year.
12. YHWH gave Shlomo wisdom, as he promised him; and there was peace between Hiram and Shlomo; and they two made a league together.
13. King Shlomo raised a levy out of all Israel; and the levy was thirty thousand men.
14. He sent them to Levanon, ten thousand a month by courses; a month they were in Levanon, and two months at home; and Adoniram was over the men subject to forced labor.
15. Shlomo had seventy thousand who bore burdens, and eighty thousand who were stone cutters in the mountains;
16. besides Shlomo's chief officers who were over the work, three thousand and three hundred, who bore rule over the people who labored in the work.
17. The king commanded, and they hewed out great stones, costly stones, to lay the foundation of the house with worked stone.
18. Shlomo's builders and Hiram's builders and the Gebalites did fashion them, and prepared the timber and the stones to build the house.

1 Kings 6
1. It happened in the four hundred and eightieth year after the children of Israel were come out of the land of Mitzrayim, in the fourth year of Shlomo's reign over Israel, in the month Ziv, which is the second month, that he began to build the house of YHWH.
2. The house which king Shlomo built for YHWH, the length of it was sixty cubits, and the breadth of it twenty [cubits], and the height of it thirty cubits.
3. The porch before the temple of the house, twenty cubits was the length of it, according to the breadth of the house; [and] ten cubits was the breadth of it before the house.
4. For the house he made windows of fixed lattice work.
5. Against the wall of the house he built stories round about, against the walls of the house round about, both of the temple and of the oracle; and he made side chambers round about.
6. The nethermost story was five cubits broad, and the middle was six cubits broad, and the third was seven cubits broad; for on the outside he made offsets [in the wall] of the house round about, that [the beams] should not have hold in the walls of the house.
7. The house, when it was in building, was built of stone made ready at the quarry; and there was neither hammer nor axe nor any tool of iron heard in the house, while it was in building.
8. The door for the middle side chambers was in the right side of the house: and they went up by winding stairs into the middle [story], and out of the middle into the third.
9. So he built the house, and finished it; and he covered the house with beams and planks of cedar.
10. He built the stories against all the house, each five cubits high: and they rested on the house with timber of cedar.
11. The word of YHWH came to Shlomo, saying,
12. Concerning this house which you are building, if you will walk in my statutes, and execute my ordinances, and keep all my commandments to walk in them; then will I establish my word with you, which I spoke to Dawid your father.
13. I will dwell among the children of Israel, and will not forsake my people Israel.
14. So Shlomo built the house, and finished it.
15. He built the walls of the house within with boards of cedar: from the floor of the house to the walls of the ceiling, he covered them on the inside with wood; and he covered the floor of the house with boards of fir.
16. He built twenty cubits on the hinder part of the house with boards of cedar from the floor to the walls [of the ceiling]: he built [them] for it within, for an oracle, even for the most holy place.
17. The house, that is, the temple before [the oracle], was forty cubits [long].
18. There was cedar on the house within, carved with buds and open flowers: all was cedar; there was no stone seen.
19. He prepared an oracle in the midst of the house within, to set there the ark of the covenant of YHWH.
20. Within the oracle was [a space of] twenty cubits in length, and twenty cubits in breadth, and twenty cubits in the height of it; and he overlaid it with pure gold: and he covered the altar with cedar.
21. So Shlomo overlaid the house within with pure gold: and he drew chains of gold across before the oracle; and he overlaid it with gold.
22. The whole house he overlaid with gold, until all the house was finished: also the whole altar that belonged to the oracle he overlaid with gold.
23. In the oracle he made two cherubim of olive wood, each ten cubits high.
24. Five cubits was the one wing of the cherub, and five cubits the other wing of the cherub: from the uttermost part of the one wing to the uttermost part of the other were ten cubits.
25. The other cherub was ten cubits: both the cherubim were of one measure and one form.
26. The height of the one cherub was ten cubits, and so was it of the other cherub.
27. He set the cherubim within the inner house; and the wings of the cherubim were stretched forth, so that the wing of the one touched the one wall, and the wing of the other cherub touched the other wall; and their wings touched one another in the midst of the house.
28. He overlaid the cherubim with gold.
29. He carved all the walls of the house round about with carved figures of cherubim and palm trees and open flowers, inside and outside.
30. The floor of the house he overlaid with gold, inside and outside.
31. For the entrance of the oracle he made doors of olive wood: the lintel [and] door posts were a fifth part [of the wall].
32. So [he made] two doors of olive wood; and he carved on them carvings of cherubim and palm trees and open flowers, and overlaid them with gold; and he spread the gold on the cherubim, and on the palm trees.
33. So also made he for the entrance of the temple door posts of olive wood, out of a fourth part [of the wall];
34. and two doors of fir wood: the two leaves of the one door were folding, and the two leaves of the other door were folding.
35. He carved [thereon] cherubim and palm trees and open flowers; and he overlaid them with gold fitted on the engraved work.
36. He built the inner court with three courses of hewn stone, and a course of cedar beams.
37. In the fourth year was the foundation of the house of YHWH laid, in the month Ziv.
38. In the eleventh year, in the month Bul, which is the eighth month, was the house finished throughout all the parts of it, and according to all the fashion of it. So was he seven years in building it.

1 Kings 7
1. Shlomo was building his own house thirteen years, and he finished all his house.
2. For he built the house of the forest of Levanon; the length of it was one hundred cubits, and the breadth of it fifty cubits, and the height of it thirty cubits, on four rows of cedar pillars, with cedar beams on the pillars.
3. It was covered with cedar above over the forty-five beams, that were on the pillars; fifteen in a row.
4. There were beams in three rows, and window was over against window in three ranks.
5. All the doors and posts were made square with beams: and window was over against window in three ranks.
6. He made the porch of pillars; the length of it was fifty cubits, and the breadth of it thirty cubits; and a porch before them; and pillars and a threshold before them.
7. He made the porch of the throne where he was to judge, even the porch of judgment: and it was covered with cedar from floor to floor.
8. His house where he was to dwell, the other court within the porch, was of the like work. He made also a house for Pharaoh's daughter (whom Shlomo had taken as wife), like this porch.
9. All these were of costly stones, even of hewn stone, according to measure, sawed with saws, inside and outside, even from the foundation to the coping, and so on the outside to the great court.
10. The foundation was of costly stones, even great stones, stones of ten cubits, and stones of eight cubits.
11. Above were costly stones, even hewn stone, according to measure, and cedar wood.
12. The great court round about had three courses of hewn stone, and a course of cedar beams; like as the inner court of the house of YHWH, and the porch of the house.
13. King Shlomo sent and fetched Hiram out of Tzor.
14. He was the son of a widow of the tribe of Naphtali, and his father was a person of Tzor, a worker in brass; and he was filled with wisdom and understanding and skill, to work all works in brass. He came to king Shlomo, and performed all his work.
15. For he fashioned the two pillars of brass, eighteen cubits high apiece: and a line of twelve cubits compassed either of them about.
16. He made two capitals of molten brass, to set on the tops of the pillars: the height of the one capital was five cubits, and the height of the other capital was five cubits.
17. There were nets of checker work, and wreaths of chain work, for the capitals which were on the top of the pillars; seven for the one capital, and seven for the other capital.
18. So he made the pillars; and there were two rows round about on the one network, to cover the capitals that were on the top of the pillars: and so did he for the other capital.
19. The capitals that were on the top of the pillars in the porch were of lily work, four cubits.
20. There were capitals above also on the two pillars, close by the belly which was beside the network: and the pomegranates were two hundred, in rows round about on the other capital.
21. He set up the pillars at the porch of the temple: and he set up the right pillar, and called the name of it Jachin; and he set up the left pillar, and called the name of it Boaz.
22. On the top of the pillars was lily work: so was the work of the pillars finished.
23. He made the molten sea of ten cubits from brim to brim, round in compass, and the height of it was five cubits; and a line of thirty cubits compassed it round about.
24. Under the brim of it round about there were buds which did compass it, for ten cubits, compassing the sea round about: the buds were in two rows, cast when it was cast.
25. It stood on twelve oxen, three looking toward the north, and three looking toward the west, and three looking toward the south, and three looking toward the east; and the sea was set on them above, and all their hinder parts were inward.
26. It was a handbreadth thick: and the brim of it was worked like the brim of a cup, like the flower of a lily: it held two thousand baths.
27. He made the ten bases of brass; four cubits was the length of one base, and four cubits the breadth of it, and three cubits the height of it.
28. The work of the bases was on this manner: they had panels; and there were panels between the ledges;
29. and on the panels that were between the ledges were lions, oxen, and cherubim; and on the ledges there was a pedestal above; and beneath the lions and oxen were wreaths of hanging work.
30. Every base had four bronze wheels, and axles of brass; and the four feet of it had supports: beneath the basin were the supports molten, with wreaths at the side of each.
31. The mouth of it within the capital and above was a cubit: and the mouth of it was round after the work of a pedestal, a cubit and a half; and also on the mouth of it were engravings, and their panels were foursquare, not round.
32. The four wheels were underneath the panels; and the axles of the wheels were in the base: and the height of a wheel was a cubit and half a cubit.
33. The work of the wheels was like the work of a chariot wheel: their axles, and their rims, and their spokes, and their naves, were all molten.
34. There were four supports at the four corners of each base: the supports of it were of the base itself.
35. In the top of the base was there a round compass half a cubit high; and on the top of the base the stays of it and the panels of it were of the same.
36. On the plates of the stays of it, and on the panels of it, he engraved cherubim, lions, and palm trees, according to the space of each, with wreaths round about.
37. After this manner he made the ten bases: all of them had one casting, one measure, and one form.
38. He made ten basins of brass: one basin contained forty baths; and every basin was four cubits; and on very one of the ten bases one basin.
39. He set the bases, five on the right side of the house, and five on the left side of the house: and he set the sea on the right side of the house eastward, toward the south.
40. Hiram made the basins, and the shovels, and the basins. So Hiram made an end of doing all the work that he worked for king Shlomo in the house of YHWH:
41. the two pillars, and the two bowls of the capitals that were on the top of the pillars; and the two networks to cover the two bowls of the capitals that were on the top of the pillars;
42. and the four hundred pomegranates for the two networks; two rows of pomegranates for each network, to cover the two bowls of the capitals that were on the pillars;
43. and the ten bases, and the ten basins on the bases;
44. and the one sea, and the twelve oxen under the sea;
45. and the pots, and the shovels, and the basins: even all these vessels, which Hiram made for king Shlomo, in the house of YHWH, were of burnished brass.
46. In the plain of the Yarden did the king cast them, in the clay ground between Succoth and Zarethan.
47. Shlomo left all the vessels [unweighed], because they were exceeding many: the weight of the brass could not be found out.
48. Shlomo made all the vessels that were in the house of YHWH: the golden altar, and the table whereupon the show bread was, of gold;
49. and the lampstands, five on the right side, and five on the left, before the oracle, of pure gold; and the flowers, and the lamps, and the tongs, of gold;
50. and the cups, and the snuffers, and the basins, and the spoons, and the fire pans, of pure gold; and the hinges, both for the doors of the inner house, the most holy place, and for the doors of the house, [to wit], of the temple, of gold.
51. Thus all the work that king Shlomo worked in the house of YHWH was finished. Shlomo brought in the things which Dawid his father had dedicated, [even] the silver, and the gold, and the vessels, and put them in the treasuries of the house of YHWH.

1 Kings 8
1. Then Shlomo assembled the elders of Israel, and all the heads of the tribes, the princes of the fathers' [houses] of the children of Israel, to king Shlomo in Yerushalayim, to bring up the ark of the covenant of YHWH out of the city of Dawid, which is Tzion.
2. All the people of Israel assembled themselves to king Shlomo at the feast, in the month Ethanim, which is the seventh month.
3. All the elders of Israel came, and the priests took up the ark.
4. They brought up the ark of YHWH, and the tent of meeting, and all the holy vessels that were in the Tent; even these did the priests and the Levites bring up.
5. King Shlomo and all the congregation of Israel, who were assembled to him, were with him before the ark, sacrificing sheep and oxen, that could not be counted nor numbered for multitude.
6. The priests brought in the ark of the covenant of YHWH to its place, into the oracle of the house, to the most holy place, even under the wings of the cherubim.
7. For the cherubim spread forth their wings over the place of the ark, and the cherubim covered the ark and the poles of it above.
8. The poles were so long that the ends of the poles were seen from the holy place before the oracle; but they were not seen outside: and there they are to this day.
9. There was nothing in the ark save the two tables of stone which Moshe put there at Horeb, when YHWH made a covenant with the children of Israel, when they came out of the land of Mitzrayim.
10. It came to pass, when the priests were come out of the holy place, that the cloud filled the house of YHWH,
11. so that the priests could not stand to minister by reason of the cloud; for the glory of YHWH filled the house of YHWH.
12. Then spoke Shlomo, YHWH has said that he would dwell in the thick darkness.
13. I have surely built you a house of habitation, a place for you to dwell in forever.
14. The king turned his face about, and blessed all the assembly of Israel: and all the assembly of Israel stood.
15. He said, Blessed be YHWH, the God of Israel, who spoke with his mouth to Dawid your father, and has with his hand fulfilled it, saying,
16. Since the day that I brought forth my people Israel out of Mitzrayim, I chose no city out of all the tribes of Israel to build a house, that my name might be there; but I chose Dawid to be over my people Israel.
17. Now it was in the heart of Dawid my father to build a house for the name of YHWH, the God of Israel.
18. But YHWH said to Dawid my father, Whereas it was in your heart to build a house for my name, you did well that it was in your heart:
19. nevertheless you shall not build the house; but your son who shall come forth out of your body, he shall build the house for my name.
20. YHWH has established his word that he spoke; for I am risen up in the room of Dawid my father, and sit on the throne of Israel, as YHWH promised, and have built the house for the name of YHWH, the God of Israel.
21. There have I set a place for the ark, in which is the covenant of YHWH, which he made with our fathers, when he brought them out of the land of Mitzrayim.
22. Shlomo stood before the altar of YHWH in the presence of all the assembly of Israel, and spread forth his hands toward heavens;
23. and he said, YHWH, the God of Israel, there is no Elohim like you, in heavens above, or on earth beneath; who keep covenant and loving kindness with your servants, who walk before you with all their heart;
24. who have kept with your servant Dawid my father that which you did promise him: yes, you spoke with your mouth, and have fulfilled it with your hand, as it is this day.
25. Now therefore, YHWH, the God of Israel, keep with your servant Dawid my father that which you have promised him, saying, There shall not fail you a person in my sight to sit on the throne of Israel, if only your children take heed to their way, to walk before me as you have walked before me.
26. Now therefore, God of Israel, Please let your word be verified, which you spoke to your servant Dawid my father.
27. But will Elohim in very deed dwell on the earth? behold, heavens and the heavens of heavens can't contain you; how much less this house that I have built!
28. Yet have respect for the prayer of your servant, and for his supplication, YHWH my God, to listen to the cry and to the prayer which your servant prays before you this day;
29. that your eyes may be open toward this house night and day, even toward the place of which you have said, My name shall be there; to listen to the prayer which your servant shall pray toward this place.
30. Listen you to the supplication of your servant, and of your people Israel, when they shall pray toward this place: yes, hear in heavens, your dwelling place; and when you hear, forgive.
31. If someone sin against their neighbor, and an oath be laid on him to cause him to swear, and they come [and] swear before your altar in this house;
32. then hear you in heavens, and do, and judge your servants, condemning the wicked, to bring his way on his own head, and justifying the righteous, to give him according to his righteousness.
33. When your people Israel are struck down before the enemy, because they have sinned against you; if they turn again to you, and confess your name, and pray and make supplication to you in this house:
34. then hear you in heavens, and forgive the sin of your people Israel, and bring them again to the land which you gave to their fathers.
35. When the heavens is shut up, and there is no rain, because they have sinned against you; if they pray toward this place, and confess your name, and turn from their sin, when you do afflict them:
36. then hear in heavens, and forgive the sin of your servants, and of your people Israel, when you teach them the good way in which they should walk; and send rain on your land, which you have given to your people for an inheritance.
37. If there be in the land famine, if there be pestilence, if there is blight [or] mildew, locust [or] caterpillar; if their enemy besiege them in the land of their cities; whatever plague, whatever sickness there be;
38. whatever prayer and supplication be made by anyone, [or] by all your people Israel, who shall know everyone the plague of their own heart, and spread forth their hands toward this house:
39. then hear in heavens, your dwelling place, and forgive, and do, and render to everyone according to all their ways, whose heart you know; (for you, even you only, know the hearts of all the children of people;)
40. that they may revere you all the days that they live in the land which you gave to our fathers.
41. Moreover concerning the foreigner, who is not of your people Israel, when he shall come out of a far country for your name's sake
42. (for they shall hear of your great name, and of your mighty hand, and of your outstretched arm); when he shall come and pray toward this house;
43. hear in heavens, your dwelling place, and do according to all that the foreigner calls to you for; that all the peoples of the earth may know your name, to revere you, as does your people Israel, and that they may know that this house which I have built is called by my name.
44. If your people go out to battle against their enemy, by whatever way you shall send them, and they pray to YHWH toward the city which you have chosen, and toward the house which I have built for your name;
45. then hear in heavens their prayer and their supplication, and maintain their cause.
46. If they sin against you (for there is no one who doesn't sin), and you are angry with them, and deliver them to the enemy, so that they carry them away captive to the land of the enemy, far off or near;
47. yet if they turn back in the land where they are carried captive, and turn again, and make supplication to you in the land of those who carried them captive, saying, We have sinned, and have done perversely, we have dealt wickedly;
48. if they return to you with all their heart and with all their soul in the land of their enemies, who carried them captive, and pray to you toward their land, which you gave to their fathers, the city which you have chosen, and the house which I have built for your name:
49. then hear you their prayer and their supplication in heavens, your dwelling place, and maintain their cause;
50. and forgive your people who have sinned against you, and all their transgressions in which they have transgressed against you; and give them compassion before those who carried them captive, that they may have compassion on them
51. (for they are your people, and your inheritance, which you brought forth out of Mitzrayim, from the midst of the furnace of iron);
52. that your eyes may be open to the supplication of your servant, and to the supplication of your people Israel, to listen to them whenever they cry to you.
53. For you did separate them from among all the peoples of the earth, to be your inheritance, as you spoke by Moshe your servant, when you brought our fathers out of Mitzrayim, YHWH God.
54. It was so, that when Shlomo had made an end of praying all this prayer and supplication to YHWH, he arose from before the altar of YHWH, from kneeling on his knees with his hands spread forth toward heavens.
55. He stood, and blessed all the assembly of Israel with a loud voice, saying,
56. Blessed be YHWH, who has given rest to his people Israel, according to all that he promised: there has not failed one word of all his good promise, which he promised by Moshe his servant.
57. YHWH our God be with us, as he was with our fathers: let him not leave us, nor forsake us;
58. that he may incline our hearts to him, to walk in all his ways, and to keep his commandments, and his statutes, and his ordinances, which he commanded our fathers.
59. Let these my words, with which I have made supplication before YHWH, be near to YHWH our God day and night, that he maintain the cause of his servant, and the cause of his people Israel, as every day shall require;
60. that all the peoples of the earth may know that YHWH, he is Elohim; there is none else.
61. Let your heart therefore be perfect with YHWH our God, to walk in his statutes, and to keep his commandments, as at this day.
62. The king, and all Israel with him, offered sacrifice before YHWH.
63. Shlomo offered for the sacrifice of peace offerings, which he offered to YHWH, two and twenty thousand oxen, and one hundred twenty thousand sheep. So the king and all the children of Israel dedicated the house of YHWH.
64. The same day did the king make the middle of the court holy that was before the house of YHWH; for there he offered the burnt offering, and the meal offering, and the fat of the peace offerings, because the bronze altar that was before YHWH was too little to receive the burnt offering, and the meal offering, and the fat of the peace offerings.
65. So Shlomo held the feast at that time, and all Israel with him, a great assembly, from the entrance of Hamath to the brook of Mitzrayim, before YHWH our God, seven days and seven days, even fourteen days.
66. On the eighth day he sent the people away; and they blessed the king, and went to their tents joyful and glad of heart for all the goodness that YHWH had shown to Dawid his servant, and to Israel his people.

1 Kings 9
1. It happened, when Shlomo had finished the building of the house of YHWH, and the king's house, and all Shlomo's desire which he was pleased to do,
2. that YHWH appeared to Shlomo the second time, as he had appeared to him at Gibeon.
3. YHWH said to him, I have heard your prayer and your supplication, that you have made before me: I have made this house holy, which you have built, to put my name there forever; and my eyes and my heart shall be there perpetually.
4. As for you, if you will walk before me, as Dawid your father walked, in integrity of heart, and in uprightness, to do according to all that I have commanded you, and will keep my statutes and my ordinances;
5. then I will establish the throne of your kingdom over Israel forever, according as I promised to Dawid your father, saying, There shall not fail you a person on the throne of Israel.
6. But if you shall turn away from following me, you or your children, and not keep my commandments and my statutes which I have set before you, but shall go and serve other gods, and worship them;
7. then will I cut off Israel out of the land which I have given them; and this house, which I have made holy for my name, will I cast out of my sight; and Israel shall be a proverb and a byword among all peoples.
8. Though this house is so high, yet shall everyone who passes by it be astonished, and shall hiss; and they shall say, Why has YHWH done thus to this land, and to this house?
9. and they shall answer, Because they forsook YHWH their God, who brought forth their fathers out of the land of Mitzrayim, and laid hold on other gods, and worshiped them, and served them: therefore has YHWH brought all this brokenness on them.
10. It happened at the end of twenty years, in which Shlomo had built the two houses, the house of YHWH and the king's house
11. (now Hiram the king of Tzor had furnished Shlomo with cedar trees and fir trees, and with gold, according to all his desire), that then king Shlomo gave Hiram twenty cities in the land of Galil.
12. Hiram came out from Tzor to see the cities which Shlomo had given him; and they didn't please him.
13. He said, What cities are these which you have given me, my brother? He called them the land of Cabul to this day.
14. Hiram sent to the king one hundred twenty talents of gold.
15. This is the reason of the levy which king Shlomo raised, to build the house of YHWH, and his own house, and Millo, and the wall of Yerushalayim, and Hazor, and Megiddo, and Gezer.
16. Pharaoh king of Mitzrayim had gone up, and taken Gezer, and burnt it with fire, and slain the Canaanites who lived in the city, and given it for a portion to his daughter, Shlomo's wife.
17. Shlomo built Gezer, and Beth Horon the lower,
18. and Baalath, and Tamar in the wilderness, in the land,
19. and all the storage cities that Shlomo had, and the cities for his chariots, and the cities for his horsemen, and that which Shlomo desired to build for his pleasure in Yerushalayim, and in Levanon, and in all the land of his dominion.
20. As for all the people who were left of the Amorites, the Hittites, the Perizzites, the Hivites, and the Jebusites, who were not of the children of Israel;
21. their children who were left after them in the land, whom the children of Israel were not able utterly to destroy, of them did Shlomo raise a levy of bondservants to this day.
22. But of the children of Israel did Shlomo make no bondservants; but they were the men of war, and his servants, and his princes, and his captains, and rulers of his chariots and of his horsemen.
23. These were the chief officers who were over Shlomo's work, five hundred fifty, who bore rule over the people who labored in the work.
24. But Pharaoh's daughter came up out of the city of Dawid to her house which [Shlomo] had built for her: then did he build Millo.
25. Three times a year did Shlomo offer burnt offerings and peace offerings on the altar which he built to YHWH, burning incense therewith, [on the altar] that was before YHWH. So he finished the house.
26. King Shlomo made a navy of ships in Ezion Geber, which is beside Eloth, on the shore of the Red Sea, in the land of Edom.
27. Hiram sent in the navy his servants, sailors who had knowledge of the sea, with the servants of Shlomo.
28. They came to Ophir, and fetched from there gold, four hundred and twenty talents, and brought it to king Shlomo.

1 Kings 10
1. When the queen of Sheba heard of the fame of Shlomo concerning the name of YHWH, she came to prove him with hard questions.
2. She came to Yerushalayim with a very great train, with camels that bore spices, and very much gold, and precious stones; and when she was come to Shlomo, she talked with him of all that was in her heart.
3. Shlomo told her all her questions: there was not anything hidden from the king which he didn't tell her.
4. When the queen of Sheba had seen all the wisdom of Shlomo, and the house that he had built,
5. and the food of his table, and the sitting of his servants, and the attendance of his ministers, and their clothing, and his cup bearers, and his ascent by which he went up to the house of YHWH; there was no more spirit in her.
6. She said to the king, It was a true report that I heard in my own land of your acts, and of your wisdom.
7. However I didn't believe the words, until I came, and my eyes had seen it: and behold, the half was not told me; your wisdom and prosperity exceed the fame which I heard.
8. Happy are your men, happy are these your servants, who stand continually before you, [and] who hear your wisdom.
9. Blessed be YHWH your God, who delighted in you, to set you on the throne of Israel: because YHWH loved Israel forever, therefore made he you king, to do justice and righteousness.
10. She gave the king one hundred twenty talents of gold, and of spices very great store, and precious stones: there came no more such abundance of spices as these which the queen of Sheba gave to king Shlomo.
11. The navy also of Hiram, that brought gold from Ophir, brought in from Ophir great plenty of almug trees and precious stones.
12. The king made of the almug trees pillars for the house of YHWH, and for the king's house, harps also and stringed instruments for the singers: there came no such almug trees, nor were seen, to this day.
13. King Shlomo gave to the queen of Sheba all her desire, whatever she asked, besides that which Shlomo gave her of his royal bounty. So she turned, and went to her own land, she and her servants.
14. Now the weight of gold that came to Shlomo in one year was six hundred sixty-six talents of gold,
15. besides [that which] the traders [brought], and the traffic of the merchants, and of all the kings of the mixed people, and of the governors of the country.
16. King Shlomo made two hundred bucklers of beaten gold; six hundred [shekels] of gold went to one buckler.
17. [he made] three hundred shields of beaten gold; three minas of gold went to one shield: and the king put them in the house of the forest of Levanon.
18. Moreover the king made a great throne of ivory, and overlaid it with the finest gold.
19. There were six steps to the throne, and the top of the throne was round behind; and there were stays on either side by the place of the seat, and two lions standing beside the stays.
20. Twelve lions stood there on the one side and on the other on the six steps: there was nothing like it made in any kingdom.
21. All king Shlomo's drinking vessels were of gold, and all the vessels of the house of the forest of Levanon were of pure gold: none were of silver; it was nothing accounted of in the days of Shlomo.
22. For the king had at sea a navy of Tarshish with the navy of Hiram: once every three years came the navy of Tarshish, bringing gold, and silver, ivory, and apes, and peacocks.
23. So king Shlomo exceeded all the kings of the earth in riches and in wisdom.
24. All the earth sought the presence of Shlomo, to hear his wisdom, which Elohim had put in his heart.
25. They brought everyone their tribute, vessels of silver, and vessels of gold, and clothing, and armor, and spices, horses, and mules, a rate year by year.
26. Shlomo gathered together chariots and horsemen: and he had a thousand and four hundred chariots, and twelve thousand horsemen, that he bestowed in the chariot cities, and with the king at Yerushalayim.
27. The king made silver to be in Yerushalayim as stones, and cedars made he to be as the sycamore trees that are in the lowland, for abundance.
28. The horses which Shlomo had were brought out of Mitzrayim; and the king's merchants received them in droves, each drove at a price.
29. A chariot came up and went out of Mitzrayim for six hundred [shekels] of silver, and a horse for one hundred fifty; and so for all the kings of the Hittites, and for the kings of Aram, did they bring them out by their means.

1 Kings 11
1. Now king Shlomo loved many foreign women, together with the daughter of Pharaoh, women of the Moabites, Ammonites, Edomites, Sidonians, and Hittites;
2. of the nations concerning which YHWH said to the children of Israel, You shall not go among them, neither shall they come among you; for surely they will turn away your heart after their gods: Shlomo joined to these in love.
3. He had seven hundred wives, princesses, and three hundred concubines; and his wives turned away his heart.
4. For it happened, when Shlomo was old, that his wives turned away his heart after other gods; and his heart was not perfect with YHWH his God, as was the heart of Dawid his father.
5. For Shlomo went after Ashtoreth the goddess of the Sidonians, and after Milcom the abomination of the Ammonites.
6. Shlomo did what was broken in the sight of YHWH, and didn't go fully after YHWH, as did Dawid his father.
7. Then did Shlomo build a high place for Chemosh the abomination of Moab, on the mountain that is before Yerushalayim, and for Molech the abomination of the children of Ammon.
8. So did he for all his foreign wives, who burnt incense and sacrificed to their gods.
9. YHWH was angry with Shlomo, because his heart was turned away from YHWH, the God of Israel, who had appeared to him twice,
10. and had commanded him concerning this thing, that he should not go after other gods: but he didn't keep that which YHWH commanded.
11. Therefore YHWH said to Shlomo, Because this is done of you, and you have not kept my covenant and my statutes, which I have commanded you, I will surely tear the kingdom from you, and will give it to your servant.
12. Notwithstanding in your days I will not do it, for Dawid your father's sake: but I will tear it out of the hand of your son.
13. However I will not tear away all the kingdom; but I will give one tribe to your son, for Dawid my servant's sake, and for Yerushalayim's sake which I have chosen.
14. YHWH raised up an adversary to Shlomo, Hadad the Edomite: he was of the king's seed in Edom.
15. For it happened, when Dawid was in Edom, and Yoav the captain of the army was gone up to bury the slain, and had struck every male in Edom
16. (for Yoav and all Israel remained there six months, until he had cut off every male in Edom);
17. that Hadad fled, he and certain Edomites of his father's servants with him, to go into Mitzrayim, Hadad being yet a little child.
18. They arose out of Midian, and came to Paran; and they took men with them out of Paran, and they came to Mitzrayim, to Pharaoh king of Mitzrayim, who gave him a house, and appointed him food, and gave him land.
19. Hadad found great favor in the sight of Pharaoh, so that he gave him as wife the sister of his own wife, the sister of Tahpenes the queen.
20. The sister of Tahpenes bore him Genubath his son, whom Tahpenes weaned in Pharaoh's house; and Genubath was in Pharaoh's house among the sons of Pharaoh.
21. When Hadad heard in Mitzrayim that Dawid slept with his fathers, and that Yoav the captain of the army was dead, Hadad said to Pharaoh, Let me depart, that I may go to my own country.
22. Then Pharaoh said to him, But what have you lacked with me, that behold, you seek to go to your own country? He answered, Nothing: however only let me depart.
23. Elohim raised up [another] adversary to him, Rezon the son of Eliada, who had fled from his lord Hadadezer king of Zobah.
24. He gathered men to him, and became captain over a troop, when Dawid killed them [of Zobah]: and they went to Dammeseq, and lived therein, and reigned in Dammeseq.
25. He was an adversary to Israel all the days of Shlomo, besides the mischief that Hadad [did]: and he abhorred Israel, and reigned over Aram.
26. Yerovam the son of Nebat, an Ephraimite of Zeredah, a servant of Shlomo, whose mother's name was Zeruah, a widow, he also lifted up his hand against the king.
27. This was the reason why he lifted up his hand against the king: Shlomo built Millo, and repaired the breach of the city of Dawid his father.
28. The person Yerovam was a mighty man of valor; and Shlomo saw the young person that he was industrious, and he gave him charge over all the labor of the house of Yosef.
29. It happened at that time, when Yerovam went out of Yerushalayim, that the prophet Ahijah the Shilonite found him in the way; now [Ahijah] had clad himself with a new garment; and they two were alone in the field.
30. Ahijah laid hold of the new garment that was on him, and tore it in twelve pieces.
31. He said to Yerovam, Take ten pieces; for thus says YHWH, the God of Israel, Behold, I will tear the kingdom out of the hand of Shlomo, and will give ten tribes to you
32. (but he shall have one tribe, for my servant Dawid's sake and for Yerushalayim's sake, the city which I have chosen out of all the tribes of Israel);
33. because that they have forsaken me, and have worshiped Ashtoreth the goddess of the Sidonians, Chemosh the god of Moab, and Milcom the god of the children of Ammon; and they have not walked in my ways, to do that which is right in my eyes, and [to keep] my statutes and my ordinances, as did Dawid his father.
34. However I will not take the whole kingdom out of his hand; but I will make him prince all the days of his life, for Dawid my servant's sake whom I chose, who kept my commandments and my statutes;
35. but I will take the kingdom out of his son's hand, and will give it to you, even ten tribes.
36. To his son will I give one tribe, that Dawid my servant may have a lamp always before me in Yerushalayim, the city which I have chosen me to put my name there.
37. I will take you, and you shall reign according to all that your soul desires, and shall be king over Israel.
38. It shall be, if you will listen to all that I command you, and will walk in my ways, and do that which is right in my eyes, to keep my statutes and my commandments, as Dawid my servant did; that I will be with you, and will build you a sure house, as I built for Dawid, and will give Israel to you.
39. I will for this afflict the seed of Dawid, but not forever.
40. Shlomo sought therefore to kill Yerovam; but Yerovam arose, and fled into Mitzrayim, to Shishak king of Mitzrayim, and was in Mitzrayim until the death of Shlomo.
41. Now the rest of the acts of Shlomo, and all that he did, and his wisdom, aren't they written in the book of the acts of Shlomo?
42. The time that Shlomo reigned in Yerushalayim over all Israel was forty years.
43. Shlomo slept with his fathers, and was buried in the city of Dawid his father: and Rechavam his son reigned in his place.

1 Kings 12
1. Rechavam went to Shekhem: for all Israel were come to Shekhem to make him king.
2. It happened, when Yerovam the son of Nebat heard of it (for he was yet in Mitzrayim, where he had fled from the presence of king Shlomo, and Yerovam lived in Mitzrayim,
3. and they sent and called him), that Yerovam and all the assembly of Israel came, and spoke to Rechavam, saying,
4. Your father made our yoke grievous: now therefore make you the grievous service of your father, and his heavy yoke which he put on us, lighter, and we will serve you.
5. He said to them, Depart yet for three days, then come again to me. The people departed.
6. King Rechavam took counsel with the old men, who had stood before Shlomo his father while he yet lived, saying, What counsel give you me to return answer to this people?
7. They spoke to him, saying, If you will be a servant to this people this day, and will serve them, and answer them, and speak good words to them, then they will be your servants forever.
8. But he forsook the counsel of the old men which they had given him, and took counsel with the young people who had grown up with him, who stood before him.
9. He said to them, What counsel do you give, that we may return answer to this people, who have spoken to me, saying, Make the yoke that your father did put on us lighter?
10. The young people who had grown up with him spoke to him, saying, Thus shall you tell this people who spoke to you, saying, Your father made our yoke heavy, but make you it lighter to us; thus shall you speak to them, My little finger is thicker than my father's waist.
11. Now whereas my father did lade you with a heavy yoke, I will add to your yoke: my father chastised you with whips, but I will chastise you with scorpions.
12. So Yerovam and all the people came to Rechavam the third day, as the king bade, saying, Come to me again the third day.
13. The king answered the people roughly, and forsook the counsel of the old men which they had given him,
14. and spoke to them after the counsel of the young people, saying, My father made your yoke heavy, but I will add to your yoke: my father chastised you with whips, but I will chastise you with scorpions.
15. So the king didn't listen to the people; for it was a thing brought about of YHWH, that he might establish his word, which YHWH spoke by Ahijah the Shilonite to Yerovam the son of Nebat.
16. When all Israel saw that the king didn't listen to them, the people answered the king, saying, What portion have we in Dawid? neither have we inheritance in the son of Yishai: to your tents, Israel: now see to your own house, Dawid. So Israel departed to their tents.
17. But as for the children of Israel who lived in the cities of Yehudah, Rechavam reigned over them.
18. Then king Rechavam sent Adoram, who was over the men subject to forced labor; and all Israel stoned him to death with stones. King Rechavam made speed to get him up to his chariot, to flee to Yerushalayim.
19. So Israel rebelled against the house of Dawid to this day.
20. It happened, when all Israel heard that Yerovam was returned, that they sent and called him to the congregation, and made him king over all Israel: there was none who followed the house of Dawid, but the tribe of Yehudah only.
21. When Rechavam was come to Yerushalayim, he assembled all the house of Yehudah, and the tribe of Binyamin, a hundred and eighty thousand chosen men, who were warriors, to fight against the house of Israel, to bring the kingdom again to Rechavam the son of Shlomo.
22. But the word of Elohim came to Shemaiah the person of Elohim, saying,
23. Speak to Rechavam the son of Shlomo, king of Yehudah, and to all the house of Yehudah and Binyamin, and to the rest of the people, saying,
24. Thus says YHWH, You shall not go up, nor fight against your brothers the children of Israel: return everyone to their house; for this thing is of me. So they listened to the word of YHWH, and returned and went their way, according to the word of YHWH.
25. Then Yerovam built Shekhem in the hill country of Efrayim, and lived therein; and he went out from there, and built Penuel.
26. Yerovam said in his heart, Now will the kingdom return to the house of Dawid:
27. if this people go up to offer sacrifices in the house of YHWH at Yerushalayim, then will the heart of this people turn again to their lord, even to Rechavam king of Yehudah; and they will kill me, and return to Rechavam king of Yehudah.
28. Whereupon the king took counsel, and made two calves of gold; and he said to them, It is too much for you to go up to Yerushalayim: see your gods, Israel, which brought you up out of the land of Mitzrayim.
29. He set the one in Beit El, and the other put he in Dan.
30. This thing became a sin; for the people went [to worship] before the one, even to Dan.
31. He made houses of high places, and made priests from among all the people, who were not of the sons of Levi.
32. Yerovam ordained a feast in the eighth month, on the fifteenth day of the month, like the feast that is in Yehudah, and he went up to the altar; so did he in Beit El, sacrificing to the calves that he had made: and he placed in Beit El the priests of the high places that he had made.
33. He went up to the altar which he had made in Beit El on the fifteenth day in the eighth month, even in the month which he had devised of his own heart: and he ordained a feast for the children of Israel, and went up to the altar, to burn incense.

1 Kings 13
1. Behold, there came a person of Elohim out of Yehudah by the word of YHWH to Beth El: and Yerovam was standing by the altar to burn incense.
2. He cried against the altar by the word of YHWH, and said, altar, altar, thus says YHWH: Behold, a son shall be born to the house of Dawid, Yoshiyahu by name; and on you shall he sacrifice the priests of the high places who burn incense on you, and people's bones shall they burn on you.
3. He gave a sign the same day, saying, This is the sign which YHWH has spoken: Behold, the altar shall be torn, and the ashes that are on it shall be poured out.
4. It happened, when the king heard the saying of the person of Elohim, which they cried against the altar in Beit El, that Yerovam put forth their hand from the altar, saying, Lay hold on him. His hand, which he put forth against him, dried up, so that he could not draw it back again to him.
5. The altar also was torn, and the ashes poured out from the altar, according to the sign which the person of Elohim had given by the word of YHWH.
6. The king answered the person of Elohim, Entreat now the favor of YHWH your God, and pray for me, that my hand may be restored me again. The person of Elohim entreated YHWH, and the king's hand was restored him again, and became as it was before.
7. The king said to the person of Elohim, Come home with me, and refresh yourself, and I will give you a reward.
8. The person of Elohim said to the king, If you will give me half your house, I will not go in with you, neither will I eat bread nor drink water in this place;
9. for so was it charged me by the word of YHWH, saying, You shall eat no bread, nor drink water, neither return by the way that you came.
10. So he went another way, and didn't return by the way that he came to Beit El.
11. Now there lived an old prophet in Beit El; and one of their sons came and told him all the works that the person of Elohim had done that day in Beit El: the words which they had spoken to the king, them also they told to their father.
12. Their father said to them, Which way did he go? Now their sons had seen which way the person of Elohim went, who came from Yehudah.
13. He said to his sons, Saddle me the donkey. So they saddled him the donkey; and he rode thereon.
14. They went after the person of Elohim, and found him sitting under an oak; and they said to him, Are you the person of Elohim who came from Yehudah? He said, I am.
15. Then he said to him, Come home with me, and eat bread.
16. He said, I may not return with you, nor go in with you; neither will I eat bread nor drink water with you in this place:
17. for it was said to me by the word of YHWH, You shall eat no bread nor drink water there, nor turn again to go by the way that you came.
18. He said to him, I also am a prophet as you are; and an angel spoke to me by the word of YHWH, saying, Bring him back with you into your house, that he may eat bread and drink water. [But] he lied to him.
19. So he went back with him, and ate bread in his house, and drank water.
20. It happened, as they sat at the table, that the word of YHWH came to the prophet who brought him back;
21. and they cried to the person of Elohim who came from Yehudah, saying, Thus says YHWH, Because you have been disobedient to the mouth of YHWH, and have not kept the commandment which YHWH your God commanded you,
22. but came back, and have eaten bread and drunk water in the place of which he said to you, Eat no bread, and drink no water; your body shall not come to the tomb of your fathers.
23. It happened, after he had eaten bread, and after he had drunk, that he saddled for him the donkey, [to wit], for the prophet whom he had brought back.
24. When he was gone, a lion met him by the way, and killed him: and his body was cast in the way, and the donkey stood by it; the lion also stood by the body.
25. Behold, men passed by, and saw the body cast in the way, and the lion standing by the body; and they came and told it in the city where the old prophet lived.
26. When the prophet who brought him back from the way heard of it, they said, It is the person of Elohim, who was disobedient to the mouth of YHWH: therefore YHWH has delivered him to the lion, which has torn him, and slain him, according to the word of YHWH, which they spoke to him.
27. He spoke to his sons, saying, Saddle me the donkey. They saddled it.
28. He went and found his body cast in the way, and the donkey and the lion standing by the body: the lion had not eaten the body, nor torn the donkey.
29. The prophet took up the body of the person of Elohim, and laid it on the donkey, and brought it back; and he came to the city of the old prophet, to mourn, and to bury him.
30. He laid his body in his own grave; and they mourned over him, [saying], Alas, my brother!
31. It happened, after they had buried him, that they spoke to their sons, saying, When I am dead, then bury me in the tomb in which the person of Elohim is buried; lay my bones beside his bones.
32. For the saying which he cried by the word of YHWH against the altar in Beit El, and against all the houses of the high places which are in the cities of Shomron, shall surely happen.
33. After this thing Yerovam didn't return from their broken way, but made again from among all the people priests of the high places: whoever would, they consecrated him, that there might be priests of the high places.
34. This thing became sin to the house of Yerovam, even to cut it off, and to destroy it from off the surface of the earth.

1 Kings 14
1. At that time Abijah the son of Yerovam fell sick.
2. Yerovam said to his wife, Please get up and disguise yourself, that you not be known to be the wife of Yerovam; and get you to Shilo: behold, there is Ahijah the prophet, who spoke concerning me that I should be king over this people.
3. Take with you ten loaves, and cakes, and a jar of honey, and go to him: he will tell you what shall become of the child.
4. Yerovam's wife did so, and arose, and went to Shilo, and came to the house of Ahijah. Now Ahijah could not see; for his eyes were set by reason of his age.
5. YHWH said to Ahijah, Behold, the wife of Yerovam comes to inquire of you concerning her son; for he is sick: thus and thus shall you tell her; for it will be, when she comes in, that she will feign herself to be another woman.
6. It was so, when Ahijah heard the sound of her feet, as she came in at the door, that he said, Come in, you wife of Yerovam; why feign you yourself to be another? for I am sent to you with heavy news.
7. Go, tell Yerovam, Thus says YHWH, the God of Israel: Because I exalted you from among the people, and made you prince over my people Israel,
8. and tore the kingdom away from the house of Dawid, and gave it you; and yet you have not been as my servant Dawid, who kept my commandments, and who followed me with all his heart, to do that only which was right in my eyes,
9. but have done brokenness above all who were before you, and have gone and made you other gods, and molten images, to provoke me to anger, and have cast me behind your back:
10. therefore, behold, I will bring harm on the house of Yerovam, and will cut off from Yerovam everyone who urinates on a wall, the one who is shut up and the one who is left at large in Israel, and will utterly sweep away the house of Yerovam, as a person sweeps away dung, until it be all gone.
11. The one who dies of Yerovam in the city shall the dogs eat; and the one who dies in the field shall the birds of the heavens eat: for YHWH has spoken it.
12. Arise you therefore, get you to your house: [and] when your feet enter into the city, the child shall die.
13. All Israel shall mourn for him, and bury him; for he only of Yerovam shall come to the grave, because in him there is found some good thing toward YHWH, the God of Israel, in the house of Yerovam.
14. Moreover YHWH will raise him up a king over Israel, who shall cut off the house of Yerovam that day: but what? even now.
15. For YHWH will strike Israel, as a reed is shaken in the water; and he will root up Israel out of this good land which he gave to their fathers, and will scatter them beyond the River, because they have made their Asherim, provoking YHWH to anger.
16. He will give Israel up because of the sins of Yerovam, which he has sinned, and with which he has made Israel to sin.
17. Yerovam's wife arose, and departed, and came to Tirzah: [and] as she came to the threshold of the house, the child died.
18. All Israel buried him, and mourned for him, according to the word of YHWH, which he spoke by his servant Ahijah the prophet.
19. The rest of the acts of Yerovam, how he warred, and how he reigned, behold, they are written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel.
20. The days which Yerovam reigned were two and twenty years: and he slept with his fathers, and Nadab his son reigned in his place.
21. Rechavam the son of Shlomo reigned in Yehudah. Rechavam was forty-one years old when he began to reign, and he reigned seventeen years in Yerushalayim, the city which YHWH had chosen out of all the tribes of Israel, to put his name there: and his mother's name was Naamah the Ammonitess.
22. Yehudah did what was broken in the sight of YHWH, and they provoked him to jealousy with their sins which they committed, above all that their fathers had done.
23. For they also built them high places, and pillars, and Asherim, on every high hill, and under every green tree;
24. and there were also sodomites in the land: they did according to all the abominations of the nations which YHWH drove out before the children of Israel.
25. It happened in the fifth year of king Rechavam, that Shishak king of Mitzrayim came up against Yerushalayim;
26. and he took away the treasures of the house of YHWH, and the treasures of the king's house; he even took away all: and he took away all the shields of gold which Shlomo had made.
27. King Rechavam made in their place shields of brass, and committed them to the hands of the captains of the guard, who kept the door of the king's house.
28. It was so, that as often as the king went into the house of YHWH, the guard bore them, and brought them back into the guard chamber.
29. Now the rest of the acts of Rechavam, and all that he did, aren't they written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Yehudah?
30. There was war between Rechavam and Yerovam continually.
31. Rechavam slept with his fathers, and was buried with his fathers in the city of Dawid: and his mother's name was Naamah the Ammonitess. Abijam his son reigned in his place.

1 Kings 15
1. Now in the eighteenth year of king Yerovam the son of Nebat began Abijam to reign over Yehudah.
2. Three years reigned he in Yerushalayim: and his mother's name was Maacah the daughter of Abishalom.
3. He walked in all the sins of his father, which he had done before him; and his heart was not perfect with YHWH his God, as the heart of Dawid his father.
4. Nevertheless for Dawid's sake did YHWH his God give him a lamp in Yerushalayim, to set up his son after him, and to establish Yerushalayim;
5. because Dawid did that which was right in the eyes of YHWH, and didn't turn aside from anything that he commanded him all the days of his life, except only in the matter of Uriyah the Hittite.
6. Now there was war between Rechavam and Yerovam all the days of his life.
7. The rest of the acts of Abijam, and all that he did, aren't they written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Yehudah? There was war between Abijam and Yerovam.
8. Abijam slept with his fathers; and they buried him in the city of Dawid: and Asa his son reigned in his place.
9. In the twentieth year of Yerovam king of Israel began Asa to reign over Yehudah.
10. Forty-one years reigned he in Yerushalayim: and his mother's name was Maacah the daughter of Abishalom.
11. Asa did that which was right in the eyes of YHWH, as did Dawid his father.
12. He put away the sodomites out of the land, and removed all the idols that his fathers had made.
13. Also Maacah his mother he removed from being queen, because she had made an abominable image for an Asherah; and Asa cut down her image, and burnt it at the brook Kidron.
14. But the high places were not taken away: nevertheless the heart of Asa was perfect with YHWH all his days.
15. He brought into the house of YHWH the things that his father had dedicated, and the things that himself had dedicated, silver, and gold, and vessels.
16. There was war between Asa and Baasha king of Israel all their days.
17. Baasha king of Israel went up against Yehudah, and built Ramah, that they might not allow anyone to go out or come in to Asa king of Yehudah.
18. Then Asa took all the silver and the gold that were left in the treasures of the house of YHWH, and the treasures of the king's house, and delivered them into the hand of his servants; and king Asa sent them to Ben Hadad, the son of Tabrimmon, the son of Hezion, king of Aram, who lived at Dammeseq, saying,
19. [There is] a league between me and you, between my father and your father: behold, I have sent to you a present of silver and gold; go, break your league with Baasha king of Israel, that he may depart from me.
20. Ben Hadad listened to king Asa, and sent the captains of his armies against the cities of Israel, and struck Ijon, and Dan, and Abel Beth Maacah, and all Chinneroth, with all the land of Naphtali.
21. It happened, when Baasha heard of it, that he left off building Ramah, and lived in Tirzah.
22. Then king Asa made a proclamation to all Yehudah; none was exempted: and they carried away the stones of Ramah, and the timber of it, with which Baasha had built; and king Asa built therewith Geba of Binyamin, and Mizpah.
23. Now the rest of all the acts of Asa, and all his might, and all that he did, and the cities which he built, aren't they written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Yehudah? But in the time of his old age he was diseased in his feet.
24. Asa slept with his fathers, and was buried with his fathers in the city of Dawid his father; and Yehoshafat his son reigned in his place.
25. Nadab the son of Yerovam began to reign over Israel in the second year of Asa king of Yehudah; and he reigned over Israel two years.
26. He did what was broken in the sight of YHWH, and walked in the way of his father, and in his sin with which he made Israel to sin.
27. Baasha the son of Ahijah, of the house of Yissakhar, conspired against him; and Baasha struck him at Gibbethon, which belonged to the Philistines; for Nadab and all Israel were laying siege to Gibbethon.
28. Even in the third year of Asa king of Yehudah did Baasha kill him, and reigned in his place.
29. It happened that, as soon as he was king, he struck all the house of Yerovam: he didn't leave to Yerovam any who breathed, until he had destroyed him; according to the saying of YHWH, which he spoke by his servant Ahijah the Shilonite;
30. for the sins of Yerovam which he sinned, and with which he made Israel to sin, because of his provocation with which he provoked YHWH, the God of Israel, to anger.
31. Now the rest of the acts of Nadab, and all that he did, aren't they written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel?
32. There was war between Asa and Baasha king of Israel all their days.
33. In the third year of Asa king of Yehudah began Baasha the son of Ahijah to reign over all Israel in Tirzah, [and reigned] twenty-four years.
34. He did what was broken in the sight of YHWH, and walked in the way of Yerovam, and in his sin with which he made Israel to sin.

1 Kings 16
1. The word of YHWH came to Yehu the son of Hanani against Baasha, saying,
2. Because I exalted you out of the dust, and made you prince over my people Israel, and you have walked in the way of Yerovam, and have made my people Israel to sin, to provoke me to anger with their sins;
3. behold, I will utterly sweep away Baasha and his house; and I will make your house like the house of Yerovam the son of Nebat.
4. The one who dies of Baasha in the city shall the dogs eat; and the one who dies of their in the field shall the birds of the heavens eat.
5. Now the rest of the acts of Baasha, and what he did, and his might, aren't they written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel?
6. Baasha slept with his fathers, and was buried in Tirzah; and Elah his son reigned in his place.
7. Moreover by the prophet Yehu the son of Hanani came the word of YHWH against Baasha, and against his house, both because of all the brokenness that he did in the sight of YHWH, to provoke him to anger with the work of his hands, in being like the house of Yerovam, and because he struck him.
8. In the twenty-sixth year of Asa king of Yehudah began Elah the son of Baasha to reign over Israel in Tirzah, [and reigned] two years.
9. His servant Zimri, captain of half his chariots, conspired against him. Now he was in Tirzah, drinking himself drunk in the house of Arza, who was over the household in Tirzah:
10. and Zimri went in and struck him, and killed him, in the twenty-seventh year of Asa king of Yehudah, and reigned in his place.
11. It happened, when they began to reign, as soon as they sat on their throne, that they struck all the house of Baasha: they didn't leave him a single one who urinates on a wall, neither of their relatives, nor of their friends.
12. Thus did Zimri destroy all the house of Baasha, according to the word of YHWH, which he spoke against Baasha by Yehu the prophet,
13. for all the sins of Baasha, and the sins of Elah his son, which they sinned, and with which they made Israel to sin, to provoke YHWH, the God of Israel, to anger with their vanities.
14. Now the rest of the acts of Elah, and all that he did, aren't they written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel?
15. In the twenty-seventh year of Asa king of Yehudah did Zimri reign seven days in Tirzah. Now the people were encamped against Gibbethon, which belonged to the Philistines.
16. The people who were encamped heard say, Zimri has conspired, and has also struck the king: therefore all Israel made Omri, the captain of the army, king over Israel that day in the camp.
17. Omri went up from Gibbethon, and all Israel with him, and they besieged Tirzah.
18. It happened, when Zimri saw that the city was taken, that he went into the castle of the king's house, and burnt the king's house over him with fire, and died,
19. for his sins which he sinned in doing what was broken in the sight of YHWH, in walking in the way of Yerovam, and in his sin which he did, to make Israel to sin.
20. Now the rest of the acts of Zimri, and his treason that he did, aren't they written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel?
21. Then were the people of Israel divided into two parts: half of the people followed Tibni the son of Ginath, to make him king; and half followed Omri.
22. But the people who followed Omri prevailed against the people who followed Tibni the son of Ginath: so Tibni died, and Omri reigned.
23. In the thirty-first year of Asa king of Yehudah began Omri to reign over Israel, [and reigned] twelve years: six years reigned he in Tirzah.
24. He bought the hill Shomron of Shemer for two talents of silver; and he built on the hill, and called the name of the city which he built, after the name of Shemer, the owner of the hill, Shomron.
25. Omri did what was broken in the sight of YHWH, and dealt wickedly above all who were before him.
26. For he walked in all the way of Yerovam the son of Nebat, and in his sins with which he made Israel to sin, to provoke YHWH, the God of Israel, to anger with their vanities.
27. Now the rest of the acts of Omri which he did, and his might that he shown, aren't they written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel?
28. So Omri slept with his fathers, and was buried in Shomron; and Achav his son reigned in his place.
29. In the thirty-eighth year of Asa king of Yehudah began Achav the son of Omri to reign over Israel: and Achav the son of Omri reigned over Israel in Shomron twenty-two years.
30. Achav the son of Omri did what was broken in the sight of YHWH above all that were before him.
31. It happened, as if it had been a light thing for him to walk in the sins of Yerovam the son of Nebat, that he took as wife Jezebel the daughter of Ethbaal king of the Sidonians, and went and served Baal, and worshiped him.
32. He reared up an altar for Baal in the house of Baal, which he had built in Shomron.
33. Achav made the Asherah; and Achav did yet more to provoke YHWH, the God of Israel, to anger than all the kings of Israel who were before him.
34. In his days did Hiel the Bethelite build Yericho: he laid the foundation of it with the loss of Abiram his firstborn, and set up the gates of it with the loss of his youngest son Segub, according to the word of YHWH, which he spoke by Yehoshua the son of Nun.

1 Kings 17
1. Eliyahu the Tishbite, who was of the foreigners of Gilead, said to Achav, As YHWH, the God of Israel, lives, before whom I stand, there shall not be dew nor rain these years, but according to my word.
2. The word of YHWH came to him, saying,
3. Get you hence, and turn you eastward, and hide yourself by the brook Cherith, that is before the Yarden.
4. It shall be, that you shall drink of the brook; and I have commanded the ravens to feed you there.
5. So he went and did according to the word of YHWH; for he went and lived by the brook Cherith, that is before the Yarden.
6. The ravens brought him bread and flesh in the morning, and bread and flesh in the evening; and he drank of the brook.
7. It happened after a while, that the brook dried up, because there was no rain in the land.
8. The word of YHWH came to him, saying,
9. Arise, get you to Zarephath, which belongs to Tzidon, and dwell there: behold, I have commanded a widow there to sustain you.
10. So he arose and went to Zarephath; and when he came to the gate of the city, behold, a widow was there gathering sticks: and he called to her, and said, Please get me a little water in a vessel, that I may drink.
11. As she was going to get it, he called to her, and said, Please bring me a morsel of bread in your hand.
12. She said, As YHWH your God lives, I don't have a cake, but a handful of meal in the jar, and a little oil in the jar: and behold, I am gathering two sticks, that I may go in and bake it for me and my son, that we may eat it, and die.
13. Eliyahu said to her, Don't be afraid; go and do as you have said; but make me of it a little cake first, and bring it forth to me, and afterward make for you and for your son.
14. For thus says YHWH, the God of Israel, The jar of meal shall not empty, neither shall the jar of oil fail, until the day that YHWH sends rain on the earth.
15. She went and did according to the saying of Eliyahu: and she, and he, and her house, ate [many] days.
16. The jar of meal didn't empty, neither did the jar of oil fail, according to the word of YHWH, which he spoke by Eliyahu.
17. It happened after these things, that the son of the woman, the mistress of the house, fell sick; and his sickness was so sore, that there was no breath left in him.
18. She said to Eliyahu, What have I to do with you, you man of Elohim? You have come to me to bring my sin to memory, and to kill my son!
19. He said to her, Give me your son. He took him out of her bosom, and carried him up into the chamber, where he abode, and laid him on his own bed.
20. He cried to YHWH, and said, YHWH my God, have you also brought harm on the widow with whom I sojourn, by killing her son?
21. He stretched himself on the child three times, and cried to YHWH, and said, YHWH my God, please let this child's soul come into him again.
22. YHWH listened to the voice of Eliyahu; and the soul of the child came into him again, and he revived.
23. Eliyahu took the child, and brought him down out of the chamber into the house, and delivered him to his mother; and Eliyahu said, Behold, your son lives.
24. The woman said to Eliyahu, Now I know that you are a person of Elohim, and that the word of YHWH in your mouth is truth.

1 Kings 18
1. It happened after many days, that the word of YHWH came to Eliyahu, in the third year, saying, Go, show yourself to Achav; and I will send rain on the earth.
2. Eliyahu went to show himself to Achav. The famine was sore in Shomron.
3. Achav called Obadiah, who was over the household. (Now Obadiah revered YHWH greatly:
4. for it was so, when Jezebel cut off the prophets of YHWH, that Obadiah took one hundred prophets, and hid them by fifty in a cave, and fed them with bread and water.)
5. Achav said to Obadiah, Go through the land, to all the springs of water, and to all the brooks: peradventure we may find grass and save the horses and mules alive, that we not lose all the animals.
6. So they divided the land between them to pass throughout it: Achav went one way by himself, and Obadiah went another way by himself.
7. As Obadiah was in the way, behold, Eliyahu met him: and he knew him, and fell on his face, and said, Is it you, my lord Eliyahu?
8. He answered him, It is I: go, tell your lord, Behold, Eliyahu [is here].
9. He said, Wherein have I sinned, that you would deliver your servant into the hand of Achav, to kill me?
10. As YHWH your God lives, there is no nation or kingdom, where my lord has not sent to seek you: and when they said, He is not here, he took an oath of the kingdom and nation, that they didn't find you.
11. Now you say, Go, tell your lord, Behold, Eliyahu [is here].
12. It will happen, as soon as I am gone from you, that the Ruach of YHWH will carry you I don't know where; and so when I come and tell Achav, and he can't find you, he will kill me: but I your servant revere YHWH from my youth.
13. Wasn't it told my lord what I did when Jezebel killed the prophets of YHWH, how I hid one hundred men of YHWH's prophets by fifty in a cave, and fed them with bread and water?
14. Now you say, Go, tell your lord, Behold, Eliyahu [is here]; and he will kill me.
15. Eliyahu said, As YHWH of Armies lives, before whom I stand, I will surely show myself to him today.
16. So Obadiah went to meet Achav, and told him; and Achav went to meet Eliyahu.
17. It happened, when Achav saw Eliyahu, that Achav said to him, Is it you, you troubler of Israel?
18. He answered, I have not troubled Israel; but you, and your father's house, in that you have forsaken the commandments of YHWH, and you have followed the Baals.
19. Now therefore send, and gather to me all Israel to Mount Carmel, and the prophets of Baal four hundred fifty, and the prophets of the Asherah four hundred, who eat at Jezebel's table.
20. So Achav sent to all the children of Israel, and gathered the prophets together to Mount Carmel.
21. Eliyahu came near to all the people, and said, "How long will you waver between the two sides? If YHWH is Elohim, follow him; but if Baal, then follow him." The people answered him not a word.
22. Then Eliyahu said to the people, "I, even I only, am left a prophet of YHWH; but Baal's prophets are four hundred fifty men.
23. Let them therefore give us two bulls; and let them choose one bull for themselves, and cut it in pieces, and lay it on the wood, and put no fire under; and I will dress the other bull, and lay it on the wood, and put no fire under.
24. You call on the name of your god, and I will call on the name of YHWH; and Elohim, the one who answers by fire, let him be Elohim." All the people answered, "It is well said."
25. Eliyahu said to the prophets of Baal, "Choose one bull for yourselves, and dress it first; for you are many; and call on the name of your god, but put no fire under it."
26. They took the bull which was given them, and they dressed it, and called on the name of Baal from morning even until noon, saying, Baal, hear us. But there was no voice, nor any who answered. They leaped about the altar which was made.
27. It happened at noon, that Eliyahu mocked them, and said, Cry aloud; for he is a god: either he is musing, or he is gone aside, or he is on a journey, or peradventure he sleeps and must be awakened.
28. They cried aloud, and cut themselves after their manner with knives and lances, until the blood gushed out on them.
29. It was so, when midday was past, that they prophesied until the time of the offering of the [evening] offering; but there was neither voice, nor any to answer, nor any who regarded.
30. Eliyahu said to all the people, Come near to me; and all the people came near to him. He repaired the altar of YHWH that was thrown down.
31. Eliyahu took twelve stones, according to the number of the tribes of the sons of Ya'akov, to whom the word of YHWH came, saying, Israel shall be your name.
32. With the stones he built an altar in the name of YHWH; and he made a trench about the altar, as great as would contain two measures of seed.
33. He put the wood in order, and cut the bull in pieces, and laid it on the wood. He said, Fill four jars with water, and pour it on the burnt offering, and on the wood.
34. He said, Do it the second time; and they did it the second time. He said, Do it the third time; and they did it the third time.
35. The water ran round about the altar; and he filled the trench also with water.
36. It happened at the time of the offering of the [evening] offering, that Eliyahu the prophet came near, and said, YHWH, the God of Avraham, of Yitzhak, and of Israel, let it be known this day that you are Elohim in Israel, and that I am your servant, and that I have done all these things at your word.
37. Hear me, YHWH, hear me, that this people may know that you, YHWH, are Elohim, and [that] you have turned their heart back again.
38. Then the fire of YHWH fell, and consumed the burnt offering, and the wood, and the stones, and the dust, and licked up the water that was in the trench.
39. When all the people saw it, they fell on their faces: and they said, YHWH, he is Elohim; YHWH, he is Elohim.
40. and Eliyahu said to them, Take the prophets of Baal; don't let one of them escape. They took them; and Eliyahu brought them down to the brook Kishon, and killed them there.
41. Eliyahu said to Achav, Get you up, eat and drink; for there is the sound of abundance of rain.
42. So Achav went up to eat and to drink. Eliyahu went up to the top of Carmel; and he bowed himself down on the earth, and put his face between his knees.
43. He said to his servant, Go up now, look toward the sea. He went up, and looked, and said, There is nothing. He said, Go again seven times.
44. It happened at the seventh time, that they said, "Behold, a small cloud, like a person's hand, is rising out of the sea." He said, Go up, tell Achav, Make ready [your chariot], and get you down, that the rain not stop you.
45. It happened in a little while, that the heavens grew black with clouds and wind, and there was a great rain. Achav rode, and went to Jezreel:
46. and the hand of YHWH was on Eliyahu; and he girded up his waist, and ran before Achav to the entrance of Jezreel.

1 Kings 19
1. Achav told Jezebel all that Eliyahu had done, and how he had killed all the prophets with the sword.
2. Then Jezebel send a messenger to Eliyahu, saying, So let the gods do to me, and more also, if I don't make your life as the life of one of them by tomorrow about this time.
3. When he saw that, he arose, and went for his life, and came to Be'er Sheva, which belongs to Yehudah, and left his servant there.
4. But he himself went a day's journey into the wilderness, and came and sat down under a juniper tree: and he requested for himself that he might die, and said, It is enough; now, O YHWH, take away my life; for I am not better than my fathers.
5. He lay down and slept under a juniper tree; and behold, an angel touched him, and said to him, Arise and eat.
6. He looked, and behold, there was at his head a cake baked on the coals, and a jar of water. He ate and drink, and laid him down again.
7. The angel of YHWH came again the second time, and touched him, and said, Arise and eat, because the journey is too great for you.
8. He arose, and ate and drink, and went in the strength of that food forty days and forty nights to Horeb the Mount of Elohim.
9. He came there to a cave, and lodged there; and behold, the word of YHWH came to him, and he said to him, What are you doing here, Eliyahu?
10. He said, I have been very jealous for YHWH, the God of Armies; for the children of Israel have forsaken your covenant, thrown down your altars, and slain your prophets with the sword: and I, even I only, am left; and they seek my life, to take it away.
11. He said, Go forth, and stand on the mountain before YHWH. Behold, YHWH passed by, and a great and strong wind tore the mountains, and broke in pieces the rocks before YHWH; but YHWH was not in the wind: and after the wind an earthquake; but YHWH was not in the earthquake:
12. and after the earthquake a fire; but YHWH was not in the fire: and after the fire a still small voice.
13. It was so, when Eliyahu heard it, that he wrapped his face in his mantle, and went out, and stood in the entrance of the cave. Behold, there came a voice to him, and said, What are you doing here, Eliyahu?
14. He said, I have been very jealous for YHWH, the God of Armies; for the children of Israel have forsaken your covenant, thrown down your altars, and slain your prophets with the sword; and I, even I only, am left; and they seek my life, to take it away.
15. YHWH said to him, Go, return on your way to the wilderness of Dammeseq: and when you come, you shall anoint Hazael to be king over Aram;
16. and Yehu the son of Nimshi shall you anoint to be king over Israel; and Elisha the son of Shaphat of Abel Meholah shall you anoint to be prophet in your room.
17. It shall happen, that the one who escapes from the sword of Hazael shall Yehu kill; and the one who escapes from the sword of Yehu shall Elisha kill.
18. Yet will I leave [me] seven thousand in Israel, all the knees which have not bowed to Baal, and every mouth which has not kissed him.
19. So he departed there, and found Elisha the son of Shaphat, who was plowing, with twelve yoke [of oxen] before him, and he with the twelfth: and Eliyahu passed over to him, and cast his mantle on him.
20. He left the oxen, and ran after Eliyahu, and said, Let me, I pray you, kiss my father and my mother, and then I will follow you. He said to him, Go back again; for what have I done to you?
21. He returned from following him, and took the yoke of oxen, and killed them, and boiled their flesh with the instruments of the oxen, and gave to the people, and they ate. Then he arose, and went after Eliyahu, and ministered to him.

1 Kings 20
1. Ben Hadad the king of Aram gathered all his army together; and there were thirty-two kings with him, and horses and chariots: and he went up and besieged Shomron, and fought against it.
2. He sent messengers to Achav king of Israel, into the city, and said to him, Thus says Ben Hadad,
3. Your silver and your gold is mine; your wives also and your children, even the best, are mine.
4. The king of Israel answered, It is according to your saying, my lord, O king; I am yours, and all that I have.
5. The messengers came again, and said, Thus speaks Ben Hadad, saying, I sent indeed to you, saying, You shall deliver me your silver, and your gold, and your wives, and your children;
6. but I will send my servants to you tomorrow about this time, and they shall search your house, and the houses of your servants; and it shall be, that whatever is pleasant in your eyes, they shall put it in their hand, and take it away.
7. Then the king of Israel called all the elders of the land, and said, Please notice how this man seeks mischief: for he sent to me for my wives, and for my children, and for my silver, and for my gold; and I didn't deny him.
8. All the elders and all the people said to him, Don't you listen, neither consent.
9. Therefore he said to the messengers of Ben Hadad, Tell my lord the king, All that you did send for to your servant at the first I will do; but this thing I may not do. The messengers departed, and brought him word again.
10. Ben Hadad sent to him, and said, The gods do so to me, and more also, if the dust of Shomron shall suffice for handfuls for all the people who follow me.
11. The king of Israel answered, Tell him, Don't let the one who girds on [their armor] boast themselves as the one who puts it off.
12. It happened, when [Ben Hadad] heard this message, as he was drinking, he and the kings, in the pavilions, that he said to his servants, Set [yourselves in array]. They set [themselves in array] against the city.
13. Behold, a prophet came near to Achav king of Israel, and said, Thus says YHWH, Have you seen all this great multitude? behold, I will deliver it into your hand this day; and you shall know that I am YHWH.
14. Achav said, By whom? He said, Thus says YHWH, By the young people of the princes of the provinces. Then he said, Who shall begin the battle? He answered, You.
15. Then he mustered the young people of the princes of the provinces, and they were two hundred and thirty-two: and after them he mustered all the people, even all the children of Israel, being seven thousand.
16. They went out at noon. But Ben Hadad was drinking himself drunk in the pavilions, he and the kings, the thirty-two kings who helped him.
17. The young people of the princes of the provinces went out first; and Ben Hadad sent out, and they told him, saying, There are men come out from Shomron.
18. He said, Whether they are come out for peace, take them alive, or whether they are come out for war, taken them alive.
19. So these went out of the city, the young people of the princes of the provinces, and the army which followed them.
20. They killed everyone their man; and the Syrians fled, and Israel pursued them: and Ben Hadad the king of Aram escaped on a horse with horsemen.
21. The king of Israel went out, and struck the horses and chariots, and killed the Syrians with a great slaughter.
22. The prophet came near to the king of Israel, and said to him, Go, strengthen yourself, and mark, and see what you do; for at the return of the year the king of Aram will come up against you.
23. The servants of the king of Aram said to him, Their god is a god of the hills; therefore they were stronger than we: but let us fight against them in the plain, and surely we shall be stronger than they.
24. Do this thing: take the kings away, everyone out of their place, and put captains in their room;
25. and number you an army, like the army that you have lost, horse for horse, and chariot for chariot; and we will fight against them in the plain, and surely we shall be stronger than they. He listened to their voice, and did so.
26. It happened at the return of the year, that Ben Hadad mustered the Syrians, and went up to Aphek, to fight against Israel.
27. The children of Israel were mustered, and were provisioned, and went against them: and the children of Israel encamped before them like two little flocks of kids; but the Syrians filled the country.
28. A person of Elohim came near and spoke to the king of Israel, and said, Thus says YHWH, Because the Syrians have said, YHWH is a god of the hills, but they are not a god of the valleys; therefore will I deliver all this great multitude into your hand, and you shall know that I am YHWH.
29. They encamped one over against the other seven days. So it was, that in the seventh day the battle was joined; and the children of Israel killed of the Syrians one hundred thousand footmen in one day.
30. But the rest fled to Aphek, into the city; and the wall fell on twenty-seven thousand people who were left. Ben Hadad fled, and came into the city, into an inner chamber.
31. His servants said to him, See now, we have heard that the kings of the house of Israel are merciful kings: let us, we pray you, put sackcloth on our bodies, and ropes on our heads, and go out to the king of Israel: peradventure he will save your life.
32. So they girded sackcloth on their bodies, and [put] ropes on their heads, and came to the king of Israel, and said, Your servant Ben Hadad says, please let me live. He said, Is he yet alive? he is my brother.
33. Now the men observed diligently, and hurried to catch whether it were his mind; and they said, Your brother Ben Hadad. Then he said, Go you, bring him. Then Ben Hadad came forth to him; and he caused him to come up into the chariot.
34. [Ben Hadad] said to him, The cities which my father took from your father I will restore; and you shall make streets for you in Dammeseq, as my father made in Shomron. I, [said Achav], will let you go with this covenant. So he made a covenant with him, and let him go.
35. A certain man of the sons of the prophets said to his fellow by the word of YHWH, Please strike me. The person refused to strike him.
36. Then said he to him, Because you have not obeyed the voice of YHWH, behold, as soon as you are departed from me, a lion shall kill you. As soon as he was departed from him, a lion found him, and killed him.
37. Then he found another man, and said, Please strike me. The person struck him, smiting and wounding him.
38. So the prophet departed, and waited for the king by the way, and disguised himself with his headband over his eyes.
39. As the king passed by, he cried to the king; and he said, Your servant went out into the midst of the battle; and behold, a person turned aside, and brought a person to me, and said, Keep this man: if by any means they be missing, then shall your life be for their life, or else you shall pay a talent of silver.
40. As your servant was busy here and there, he was gone. The king of Israel said to him, So shall your judgment be; yourself have decided it.
41. He hurried, and took the headband away from his eyes; and the king of Israel discerned him that he was of the prophets.
42. They said to him, Thus says YHWH, Because you have let go out of your hand the person whom I had devoted to destruction, therefore your life shall go for their life, and your people for their people.
43. The king of Israel went to his house sullen and angry, and came to Shomron.

1 Kings 21
1. It happened after these things, that Naboth the Jezreelite had a vineyard, which was in Jezreel, hard by the palace of Achav king of Shomron.
2. Achav spoke to Naboth, saying, Give me your vineyard, that I may have it for a garden of herbs, because it is near to my house; and I will give you for it a better vineyard than it: or, if it seem good to you, I will give you the worth of it in money.
3. Naboth said to Achav, YHWH forbid it me, that I should give the inheritance of my fathers to you.
4. Achav came into his house sullen and angry because of the word which Naboth the Jezreelite had spoken to him; for he had said, I will not give you the inheritance of my fathers. He laid him down on his bed, and turned away his face, and would eat no bread.
5. But Jezebel his wife came to him, and said to him, Why is your spirit so sad, that you eat no bread?
6. He said to her, Because I spoke to Naboth the Jezreelite, and said to him, Give me your vineyard for money; or else, if it please you, I will give you [another] vineyard for it: and he answered, I will not give you my vineyard.
7. Jezebel his wife said to him, Do you now govern the kingdom of Israel? arise, and eat bread, and let your heart be merry: I will give you the vineyard of Naboth the Jezreelite.
8. So she wrote letters in Achav's name, and sealed them with his seal, and sent the letters to the elders and to the nobles who were in his city, [and] who lived with Naboth.
9. She wrote in the letters, saying, Proclaim a fast, and set Naboth on high among the people:
10. and set two men, base fellows, before him, and let them testify against him, saying, You did curse Elohim and the king. Then carry him out, and stone him to death.
11. The men of his city, even the elders and the nobles who lived in his city, did as Jezebel had sent to them, according as it was written in the letters which she had sent to them.
12. They proclaimed a fast, and set Naboth on high among the people.
13. The two men, the base fellows, came in and sat before him: and the base fellows bore witness against him, even against Naboth, in the presence of the people, saying, Naboth did curse Elohim and the king. Then they carried him forth out of the city, and stoned him to death with stones.
14. Then they sent to Jezebel, saying, Naboth is stoned, and is dead.
15. It happened, when Jezebel heard that Naboth was stoned, and was dead, that Jezebel said to Achav, Arise, take possession of the vineyard of Naboth the Jezreelite, which he refused to give you for money; for Naboth is not alive, but dead.
16. It happened, when Achav heard that Naboth was dead, that Achav rose up to go down to the vineyard of Naboth the Jezreelite, to take possession of it.
17. The word of YHWH came to Eliyahu the Tishbite, saying,
18. Arise, go down to meet Achav king of Israel, who dwells in Shomron: behold, he is in the vineyard of Naboth, where he is gone down to take possession of it.
19. You shall speak to him, saying, Thus says YHWH, Have you killed and also taken possession? You shall speak to him, saying, Thus says YHWH, In the place where dogs licked the blood of Naboth shall dogs lick your blood, even yours.
20. Achav said to Eliyahu, Have you found me, my enemy? He answered, I have found you, because you have sold yourself to do that which is brokenness in the sight of YHWH.
21. Behold, I will bring harm on you, and will utterly sweep you away and will cut off from Achav everyone who urinates against a wall, and the one who is shut up and the one who is left at large in Israel:
22. and I will make your house like the house of Yerovam the son of Nebat, and like the house of Baasha the son of Ahijah for the provocation with which you have provoked me to anger, and have made Israel to sin.
23. Of Jezebel also spoke YHWH, saying, The dogs shall eat Jezebel by the rampart of Jezreel.
24. The one who dies of Achav in the city the dogs shall eat; and the one who dies in the field shall the birds of the heavens eat.
25. (But there was none like Achav, who did sell himself to do what was broken in the sight of YHWH, whom Jezebel his wife stirred up.
26. He did very abominably in following idols, according to all that the Amorites did, whom YHWH cast out before the children of Israel.)
27. It happened, when Achav heard those words, that he tore his clothes, and put sackcloth on his flesh, and fasted, and lay in sackcloth, and went softly.
28. The word of YHWH came to Eliyahu the Tishbite, saying,
29. See you how Achav humbles himself before me? because he humbles himself before me, I will not bring the brokenness in his days; but in his son's days will I bring the brokenness on his house.

1 Kings 22
1. They continued three years without war between Aram and Israel.
2. It happened in the third year, that Yehoshafat the king of Yehudah came down to the king of Israel.
3. The king of Israel said to his servants, "You know that Ramoth Gilead is ours, and we are still, and don't take it out of the hand of the king of Aram?"
4. He said to Yehoshafat, Will you go with me to battle to Ramoth Gilead? Yehoshafat said to the king of Israel, I am as you are, my people as your people, my horses as your horses.
5. Yehoshafat said to the king of Israel, Please inquire first for the word of YHWH.
6. Then the king of Israel gathered the prophets together, about four hundred men, and said to them, Shall I go against Ramoth Gilead to battle, or shall I forbear? They said, Go up; for YHWH will deliver it into the hand of the king.
7. But Yehoshafat said, Isn't there here a prophet of YHWH besides, that we may inquire of him?
8. The king of Israel said to Yehoshafat, there is yet one man by whom we may inquire of YHWH, Micaiah the son of Imlah: but I hate him; for he does not prophesy good concerning me, but brokenness. Yehoshafat said, "Don't let the king say so."
9. Then the king of Israel called an officer, and said, Get quickly Micaiah the son of Imlah.
10. Now the king of Israel and Yehoshafat the king of Yehudah were sitting each on his throne, arrayed in their robes, in an open place at the entrance of the gate of Shomron; and all the prophets were prophesying before them.
11. Tzidkiyahu the son of Chenaanah made him horns of iron, and said, Thus says YHWH, With these shall you push the Syrians, until they be consumed.
12. All the prophets prophesied so, saying, Go up to Ramoth Gilead, and prosper; for YHWH will deliver it into the hand of the king.
13. The messenger who went to call Micaiah spoke to him, saying, See now, the words of the prophets [declare] good to the king with one mouth: please let your word be like the word of one of them, and speak you good.
14. Micaiah said, As YHWH lives, what YHWH says to me, that will I speak.
15. When he was come to the king, the king said to him, Micaiah, shall we go to Ramoth Gilead to battle, or shall we forbear? He answered him, Go up and prosper; and YHWH will deliver it into the hand of the king.
16. The king said to him, How many times shall I adjure you that you speak to me nothing but the truth in the name of YHWH?
17. He said, I saw all Israel scattered on the mountains, as sheep that have no shepherd: and YHWH said, These have no master; let them return everyone to their house in peace.
18. The king of Israel said to Yehoshafat, Didn't I tell you that he would not prophesy good concerning me, but brokenness?
19. [Micaiah] said, "Therefore hear the word of YHWH: I saw YHWH sitting on his throne, and all the army of heavens standing by him on his right hand and on his left.
20. YHWH said, 'Who shall entice Achav, that he may go up and fall at Ramoth Gilead?' One said on this manner; and another said on that manner.
21. There came forth a spirit, and stood before YHWH, and said, 'I will entice him.'
22. YHWH said to him, 'How?' He said, 'I will go forth, and will be a lying spirit in the mouth of all his prophets.' He said, 'You shall entice him, and shall prevail also: go forth, and do so.'
23. Now therefore, behold, YHWH has put a lying spirit in the mouth of all these your prophets; and YHWH has spoken harmfully concerning you."
24. Then Tzidkiyahu the son of Chenaanah came near, and struck Micaiah on the cheek, and said, Which way went the Ruach of YHWH from me to speak to you?
25. Micaiah said, Behold, you shall see on that day, when you shall go into an inner chamber to hide yourself.
26. The king of Israel said, Take Micaiah, and carry him back to Amon the governor of the city, and to Yoash the king's son;
27. and say, Thus says the king, Put this fellow in the prison, and feed him with bread of affliction and with water of affliction, until I come in peace.
28. Micaiah said, If you return at all in peace, YHWH has not spoken by me. He said, Hear, you peoples, all of you.
29. So the king of Israel and Yehoshafat the king of Yehudah went up to Ramoth Gilead.
30. The king of Israel said to Yehoshafat, I will disguise myself, and go into the battle; but put you on your robes. The king of Israel disguised himself, and went into the battle.
31. Now the king of Aram had commanded the thirty-two captains of his chariots, saying, Fight neither with small nor great, save only with the king of Israel.
32. It happened, when the captains of the chariots saw Yehoshafat, that they said, Surely it is the king of Israel; and they turned aside to fight against him: and Yehoshafat cried out.
33. It happened, when the captains of the chariots saw that it was not the king of Israel, that they turned back from pursuing him.
34. A certain man drew his bow at a venture, and struck the king of Israel between the joints of the armor: therefore he said to the driver of his chariot, Turn your hand, and carry me out of the army; for I am severely wounded.
35. The battle increased that day: and the king was stayed up in his chariot against the Syrians, and died at even; and the blood ran out of the wound into the bottom of the chariot.
36. There went a cry throughout the army about the going down of the sun, saying, Everyone to their city, and everyone to their country.
37. So the king died, and was brought to Shomron; and they buried the king in Shomron.
38. They werehed the chariot by the pool of Shomron; and the dogs licked up his blood (now the prostitutes washed themselves [there]); according to the word of YHWH which he spoke.
39. Now the rest of the acts of Achav, and all that he did, and the ivory house which he built, and all the cities that he built, aren't they written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel?
40. So Achav slept with his fathers; and Ahaziah his son reigned in his place.
41. Yehoshafat the son of Asa began to reign over Yehudah in the fourth year of Achav king of Israel.
42. Yehoshafat was thirty-five years old when he began to reign; and he reigned twenty-five years in Yerushalayim. His mother's name was Azubah the daughter of Shilhi.
43. He walked in all the way of Asa his father; He didn't turn aside from it, doing that which was right in the eyes of YHWH: however the high places were not taken away; the people still sacrificed and burnt incense in the high places.
44. Yehoshafat made peace with the king of Israel.
45. Now the rest of the acts of Yehoshafat, and his might that he shown, and how he warred, aren't they written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Yehudah?
46. The remnant of the sodomites, that remained in the days of his father Asa, he put away out of the land.
47. There was no king in Edom: a deputy was king.
48. Yehoshafat made ships of Tarshish to go to Ophir for gold: but they didn't go; for the ships were broken at Ezion Geber.
49. Then said Ahaziah the son of Achav to Yehoshafat, Let my servants go with your servants in the ships. But Yehoshafat would not.
50. Yehoshafat slept with his fathers, and was buried with his fathers in the city of Dawid his father; Jehoram his son reigned in his place.
51. Ahaziah the son of Achav began to reign over Israel in Shomron in the seventeenth year of Yehoshafat king of Yehudah, and he reigned two years over Israel.
52. He did what was broken in the sight of YHWH, and walked in the way of his father, and in the way of his mother, and in the way of Yerovam the son of Nebat, in which he made Israel to sin.
53. He served Baal, and worshiped him, and provoked to anger YHWH, the God of Israel, according to all that his father had done.

2 Kings 1
1. Moab rebelled against Israel after the death of Achav.
2. Ahaziah fell down through the lattice in his upper chamber that was in Shomron, and was sick: and he sent messengers, and said to them, Go, inquire of Baal Zebub, the god of Ekron, whether I shall recover of this sickness.
3. But the angel of YHWH said to Eliyahu the Tishbite, Arise, go up to meet the messengers of the king of Shomron, and tell them, Is it because there is no Elohim in Israel, that you go to inquire of Baal Zebub, the god of Ekron?
4. Now therefore thus says YHWH, You shall not come down from the bed where you are gone up, but shall surely die. Eliyahu departed.
5. The messengers returned to him, and he said to them, Why is it that you have returned?
6. They said to him, There came up a person to meet us, and said to us, Go, turn again to the king who sent you, and tell him, Thus says YHWH, Is it because there is no Elohim in Israel, that you send to inquire of Baal Zebub, the god of Ekron? therefore you shall not come down from the bed where you are gone up, but shall surely die.
7. They said to them, What manner of man was the one who came up to meet you, and told you these words?
8. They answered him, He was a hairy man, and girt with a belt of leather about his waist. He said, It is Eliyahu the Tishbite.
9. Then [the king] sent to him a captain of fifty with his fifty. He went up to him: and behold, he was sitting on the top of the hill. He spoke to him, man of Elohim, the king has said, Come down.
10. Eliyahu answered to the captain of fifty, If I be a person of Elohim, let fire come down from the heavens, and consume you and your fifty. Fire came down from the heavens, and consumed him and his fifty.
11. Again he sent to him another captain of fifty and his fifty. He answered him, man of Elohim, thus has the king said, Come down quickly.
12. Eliyahu answered them, If I be a person of Elohim, let fire come down from the heavens, and consume you and your fifty. The fire of Elohim came down from the heavens, and consumed him and his fifty.
13. Again he sent the captain of a third fifty with his fifty. The third captain of fifty went up, and came and fell on his knees before Eliyahu, and begged him, and said to him, man of Elohim, please let my life, and the life of these fifty your servants, be precious in your sight.
14. Behold, fire came down from the heavens, and consumed the two former captains of fifty with their fifties; but now let my life be precious in your sight.
15. The angel of YHWH said to Eliyahu, Go down with him: don't be afraid of him. He arose, and went down with him to the king.
16. He said to him, Thus says YHWH, Because you have sent messengers to inquire of Baal Zebub, the god of Ekron, is it because there is no Elohim in Israel to inquire of his word? therefore you shall not come down from the bed where you are gone up, but shall surely die.
17. So he died according to the word of YHWH which Eliyahu had spoken. Jehoram began to reign in his place in the second year of Jehoram the son of Yehoshafat king of Yehudah; because he had no son.
18. Now the rest of the acts of Ahaziah which he did, aren't they written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel?

2 Kings 2
1. It happened, when YHWH would take up Eliyahu by a whirlwind into heavens, that Eliyahu went with Elisha from Gilgal.
2. Eliyahu said to Elisha, Please wait here, for YHWH has sent me as far as Beit El. Elisha said, As YHWH lives, and as your soul lives, I will not leave you. So they went down to Beit El.
3. The sons of the prophets who were at Beit El came forth to Elisha, and said to him, "Do you know that YHWH will take away your master from your head today?" He said, "Yes, I know it; hold your peace."
4. Eliyahu said to him, Elisha, please wait here, for YHWH has sent me to Yericho. He said, As YHWH lives, and as your soul lives, I will not leave you. So they came to Yericho.
5. The sons of the prophets who were at Yericho came near to Elisha, and said to him, "Do you know that YHWH will take away your master from your head today?" He answered, "Yes, I know it. Hold your peace."
6. Eliyahu said to him, "Please wait here, for YHWH has sent me to the Yarden." He said, "As YHWH lives, and as your soul lives, I will not leave you." They two went on.
7. Fifty men of the sons of the prophets went, and stood over against them afar off: and they two stood by the Yarden.
8. Eliyahu took his mantle, and wrapped it together, and struck the waters, and they were divided here and there, so that they two went over on dry ground.
9. It happened, when they had gone over, that Eliyahu said to Elisha, Ask what I shall do for you, before I am taken from you. Elisha said, please let a double portion of your spirit be on me.
10. He said, You have asked a hard thing: [nevertheless], if you see me when I am taken from you, it shall be so to you; but if not, it shall not be so.
11. It happened, as they still went on, and talked, that behold, [there appeared] a chariot of fire, and horses of fire, which parted them both apart; and Eliyahu went up by a whirlwind into heavens.
12. Elisha saw it, and he cried, My father, my father, the chariots of Israel and the horsemen of it! He saw him no more: and he took hold of his own clothes, and tore them in two pieces.
13. He took up also the mantle of Eliyahu that fell from him, and went back, and stood by the bank of the Yarden.
14. He took the mantle of Eliyahu that fell from him, and struck the waters, and said, Where is YHWH, the God of Eliyahu? and when he also had struck the waters, they were divided here and there; and Elisha went over.
15. When the sons of the prophets who were at Yericho over against him saw him, they said, The spirit of Eliyahu does rest on Elisha. They came to meet him, and bowed themselves to the ground before him.
16. They said to him, See now, there are with your servants fifty strong men; let them go, we pray you, and seek your master, lest the Ruach of YHWH has taken him up, and cast him on some mountain, or into some valley. He said, You shall not send.
17. When they urged him until he was ashamed, he said, Send. They sent therefore fifty men; and they sought three days, but didn't find him.
18. They came back to him, while he stayed at Yericho; and he said to them, "Didn't I tell you, 'Don't go?'"
19. The men of the city said to Elisha, Behold, we pray you, the situation of this city is pleasant, as my lord sees: but the water is bad, and the land miscarries.
20. He said, Bring me a new jar, and put salt therein. They brought it to him.
21. He went forth to the spring of the waters, and cast salt therein, and said, Thus says YHWH, I have healed these waters; there shall not be from there any more death or miscarrying.
22. So the waters were healed to this day, according to the word of Elisha which he spoke.
23. He went up from there to Beit El; and as he was going up by the way, some youths came out of the city and mocked him, and said to him, Go up, you baldy; go up, you baldhead.
24. He looked behind him and saw them, and cursed them in the name of YHWH. Two female bears came out of the woods, and mauled forty-two of those youths.
25. He went from there to Mount Carmel, and from there he returned to Shomron.

2 Kings 3
1. Now Jehoram the son of Achav began to reign over Israel in Shomron in the eighteenth year of Yehoshafat king of Yehudah, and reigned twelve years.
2. He did what was broken in the sight of YHWH, but not like his father, and like his mother; for he put away the pillar of Baal that his father had made.
3. Nevertheless he cleaved to the sins of Yerovam the son of Nebat, with which he made Israel to sin; he didn't depart from it.
4. Now Mesha king of Moab was a sheep breeder; and he rendered to the king of Israel the wool of one hundred thousand lambs, and of one hundred thousand rams.
5. But it happened, when Achav was dead, that the king of Moab rebelled against the king of Israel.
6. King Jehoram went out of Shomron at that time, and mustered all Israel.
7. He went and sent to Yehoshafat the king of Yehudah, saying, The king of Moab has rebelled against me: will you go with me against Moab to battle? He said, I will go up: I am as you are, my people as your people, my horses as your horses.
8. He said, Which way shall we go up? He answered, The way of the wilderness of Edom.
9. So the king of Israel went, and the king of Yehudah, and the king of Edom; and they made a circuit of seven days' journey: and there was no water for the army, nor for the animals that followed them.
10. The king of Israel said, Alas! for YHWH has called these three kings together to deliver them into the hand of Moab.
11. But Yehoshafat said, Isn't there here a prophet of YHWH, that we may inquire of YHWH by him? One of the king of Israel's servants answered, Elisha the son of Shaphat is here, who poured water on the hands of Eliyahu.
12. Yehoshafat said, The word of YHWH is with him. So the king of Israel and Yehoshafat and the king of Edom went down to him.
13. Elisha said to the king of Israel, What have I to do with you? get you to the prophets of your father, and to the prophets of your mother. The king of Israel said to him, No; for YHWH has called these three kings together to deliver them into the hand of Moab.
14. Elisha said, As YHWH of Armies lives, before whom I stand, surely, were it not that I regard the presence of Yehoshafat the king of Yehudah, I would not look toward you, nor see you.
15. But now bring me a minstrel. It happened, when the minstrel played, that the hand of YHWH came on him.
16. He said, Thus says YHWH, Make this valley full of trenches.
17. For thus says YHWH, You shall not see wind, neither shall you see rain; yet that valley shall be filled with water, and you shall drink, both you and your livestock and your animals.
18. This is but a light thing in the sight of YHWH: he will also deliver the Moabites into your hand.
19. You shall strike every fortified city, and every choice city, and shall fell every good tree, and stop all springs of water, and mar every good piece of land with stones.
20. It happened in the morning, about the time of offering the offering, that behold, there came water by the way of Edom, and the country was filled with water.
21. Now when all the Moabites heard that the kings had come up to fight against them, they gathered themselves together, all who were able to put on armor, and upward, and stood on the border.
22. They rose up early in the morning, and the sun shone on the water, and the Moabites saw the water over against them as red as blood:
23. and they said, This is blood; the kings are surely destroyed, and they have struck each person their fellow: now therefore, Moab, to the spoil.
24. When they came to the camp of Israel, the Israelites rose up and struck the Moabites, so that they fled before them; and they went forward into the land smiting the Moabites.
25. They beat down the cities; and on every good piece of land they cast everyone their stone, and filled it; and they stopped all the springs of water, and felled all the good trees, until in Kir Hareseth [only] they left the stones of it; however the men armed with slings went about it, and struck it.
26. When the king of Moab saw that the battle was too severe for him, he took with him seven hundred people who drew sword, to break through to the king of Edom; but they could not.
27. Then he took his eldest son who would have reigned in his place, and offered him for a burnt offering on the wall. There was great wrath against Israel: and they departed from him, and returned to their own land.

2 Kings 4
1. Now there cried a certain woman of the wives of the sons of the prophets to Elisha, saying, Your servant my husband is dead; and you know that your servant did revere YHWH: and the creditor is come to take to him my two children to be bondservants.
2. Elisha said to her, What shall I do for you? tell me; what have you in the house? She said, Your handmaid has nothing in the house, except a pot of oil.
3. Then he said, Go, borrow you vessels abroad of all your neighbors, even empty vessels; borrow not a few.
4. You shall go in, and shut the door on you and on your sons, and pour out into all those vessels; and you shall set aside that which is full.
5. So she went from him, and shut the door on her and on her sons; they brought [the vessels] to her, and she poured out.
6. It happened, when the vessels were full, that she said to her son, Bring me yet a vessel. He said to her, There isn't another vessel. The oil stayed.
7. Then she came and told the person of Elohim. He said, Go, sell the oil, and pay your debt, and live you and your sons of the rest.
8. It fell on a day, that Elisha passed to Shunem, where was a great woman; and she constrained him to eat bread. So it was, that as often as he passed by, he turned in there to eat bread.
9. She said to her husband, See now, I perceive that this is a holy man of Elohim, that passes by us continually.
10. Let us make, Please, a little chamber on the wall; and let us set for him there a bed, and a table, and a seat, and a lamp stand: and it shall be, when he comes to us, that he shall turn in there.
11. It fell on a day, that he came there, and he turned into the chamber and lay there.
12. He said to Gehazi his servant, Call this Shunammite. When he had called her, she stood before him.
13. He said to him, Say now to her, Behold, you have been careful for us with all this care; what is to be done for you? would you be spoken for to the king, or to the captain of the army? She answered, I dwell among my own people.
14. He said, What then is to be done for her? Gehazi answered, Most certainly she has no son, and her husband is old.
15. He said, Call her. When he had called her, she stood in the door.
16. He said, At this season, when the time comes round, you shall embrace a son. She said, No, my lord, you man of Elohim, do not lie to your handmaid.
17. The woman conceived, and bore a son at that season, when the time came round, as Elisha had said to her.
18. When the child was grown, it fell on a day, that he went out to his father to the reapers.
19. He said to his father, My head, my head. He said to his servant, Carry him to his mother.
20. When he had taken him, and brought him to his mother, he sat on her knees until noon, and then died.
21. She went up and laid him on the bed of the person of Elohim, and shut [the door] on him, and went out.
22. She called to her husband, and said, Please send me one of the servants, and one of the donkeys, that I may run to the person of Elohim, and come again.
23. He said, Why will you go to him today? it is neither new moon nor Sabbath. She said, It shall be well.
24. Then she saddled a donkey, and said to her servant, Drive, and go forward; don't slacken me the riding, except I bid you.
25. So she went, and came to the person of Elohim to Mount Carmel. It happened, when the person of Elohim saw her afar off, that they said to Gehazi their servant, Behold, yonder is the Shunammite:
26. please run now to meet her, and ask her, Is it well with you? is it well with your husband? is it well with the child? She answered, It is well.
27. When she came to the person of Elohim to the hill, she caught hold of their feet. Gehazi came near to thrust her away; but the person of Elohim said, Let her alone: for her soul is vexed within her; and YHWH has hid it from me, and has not told me.
28. Then she said, Did I desire a son of my lord? Didn't I say, Do not deceive me?
29. Then they said to Gehazi, Gird up your waist, and take my staff in your hand, and go your way: if you meet anyone, Don't greet him; and if anyone greets you, don't answer him again: and lay my staff on the face of the child.
30. The mother of the child said, As YHWH lives, and as your soul lives, I will not leave you. He arose, and followed her.
31. Gehazi passed on before them, and laid the staff on the face of the child; but there was neither voice, nor hearing. Therefore he returned to meet him, and told him, saying, The child has not awakened.
32. When Elisha was come into the house, behold, the child was dead, and laid on his bed.
33. He went in therefore, and shut the door on them both, and prayed to YHWH.
34. He went up, and lay on the child, and put his mouth on his mouth, and his eyes on his eyes, and his hands on his hands: and he stretched himself on him; and the flesh of the child grew warm.
35. Then he returned, and walked in the house once back and forth; and went up, and stretched himself on him: and the child sneezed seven times, and the child opened his eyes.
36. He called Gehazi, and said, Call this Shunammite. So he called her. When she was come in to him, he said, Take up your son.
37. Then she went in, and fell at his feet, and bowed herself to the ground; and she took up her son, and went out.
38. Elisha came again to Gilgal. There was a dearth in the land; and the sons of the prophets were sitting before him; and he said to his servant, Set on the great pot, and boil stew for the sons of the prophets.
39. One went out into the field to gather herbs, and found a wild vine, and gathered of it wild gourds his lap full, and came and shred them into the pot of stew; for they didn't recognize them.
40. So they poured out for the men to eat. It happened, as they were eating of the stew, that they cried out, and said, man of Elohim, there is death in the pot. They could not eat of it.
41. But he said, Then bring meal. He cast it into the pot; and he said, Pour out for the people, that they may eat. There was no harm in the pot.
42. There came a person from Baal Shalishah, and brought the person of Elohim bread of the first fruits, twenty loaves of barley, and fresh ears of grain in their sack. He said, Give to the people, that they may eat.
43. His servant said, What, should I set this before a hundred men? But he said, Give the people, that they may eat; for thus says YHWH, They shall eat, and shall leave of it.
44. So he set it before them, and they ate, and left of it, according to the word of YHWH.

2 Kings 5
1. Now Naaman, captain of the army of the king of Aram, was a great man with his master, and honorable, because by him YHWH had given victory to Aram: he was also a mighty man of valor, [but he was] a leper.
2. The Syrians had gone out in bands, and had brought away captive out of the land of Israel a little maiden; and she waited on Naaman's wife.
3. She said to her mistress, Would that my lord were with the prophet who is in Shomron! then would he recover him of his leprosy.
4. One went in, and told his lord, saying, Thus and thus said the maiden who is of the land of Israel.
5. The king of Aram said, Go now, and I will send a letter to the king of Israel. He departed, and took with him ten talents of silver, and six thousand [pieces] of gold, and ten changes of clothing.
6. He brought the letter to the king of Israel, saying, Now when this letter is come to you, behold, I have sent Naaman my servant to you, that you may recover him of his leprosy.
7. It happened, when the king of Israel had read the letter, that they tore their clothes, and said, Am I Elohim, to kill and to make alive, that this man does send to me to recover a person of their leprosy? but consider, I pray you, and see how he seeks a quarrel against me.
8. It was so, when Elisha the person of Elohim heard that the king of Israel had torn their clothes, that they sent to the king, saying, Why have you torn your clothes? let him come now to me, and he shall know that there is a prophet in Israel.
9. So Naaman came with his horses and with his chariots, and stood at the door of the house of Elisha.
10. Elisha sent a messenger to him, saying, Go and wash in the Yarden seven times, and your flesh shall come again to you, and you shall be clean.
11. But Naaman was angry, and went away, and said, Behold, I thought, He will surely come out to me, and stand, and call on the name of YHWH his God, and wave his hand over the place, and recover the leper.
12. Aren't Abanah and Pharpar, the rivers of Dammeseq, better than all the waters of Israel? may I not wash in them, and be clean? So he turned and went away in a rage.
13. His servants came near, and spoke to him, and said, My father, if the prophet had bid you do some great thing, wouldn't you have done it? how much rather then, when he says to you, Wash, and be clean?
14. Then went they down, and dipped [themselves] seven times in the Yarden, according to the saying of the person of Elohim; and his flesh came again like the flesh of a little child, and he was clean.
15. They returned to the person of Elohim, they and all their company, and came, and stood before him; and he said, See now, I know that there is no Elohim in all the earth, but in Israel: now therefore, please take a present from your servant.
16. But he said, As YHWH lives, before whom I stand, I will receive none. He urged him to take it; but he refused.
17. Naaman said, If not, yet, please let there be given to your servant two mules' burden of earth; for your servant will henceforth offer neither burnt offering nor sacrifice to other gods, but to YHWH.
18. In this thing YHWH pardon your servant: when my master goes into the house of Rimmon to worship there, and he leans on my hand, and I bow myself in the house of Rimmon, when I bow myself in the house of Rimmon, YHWH pardon your servant in this thing.
19. He said to him, Go in peace. So he departed from him a little way.
20. But Gehazi the servant of Elisha the person of Elohim, said, Behold, my master has spared this Naaman the Syrian, in not receiving at their hands that which they brought: as YHWH lives, I will run after them, and take somewhat of him.
21. So Gehazi followed after Naaman. When Naaman saw one running after him, he alighted from the chariot to meet him, and said, Is all well?
22. He said, All is well. My master has sent me, saying, Behold, even now there are come to me from the hill country of Efrayim two young people of the sons of the prophets; please give them a talent of silver, and two changes of clothing.
23. Naaman said, Be pleased to take two talents. He urged him, and bound two talents of silver in two bags, with two changes of clothing, and laid them on two of his servants; and they bore them before him.
24. When he came to the hill, he took them from their hand, and bestowed them in the house; and he let the men go, and they departed.
25. But he went in, and stood before his master. Elisha said to him, Whence come you, Gehazi? He said, Your servant went no where.
26. They said to him, Didn't my heart go with you, when the person turned from their chariot to meet you? Is it a time to receive money, and to receive garments, and olive groves and vineyards, and sheep and oxen, and male servants and female servants?
27. The leprosy therefore of Naaman shall cleave to you, and to your seed forever. He went out from his presence a leper [as white] as snow.

2 Kings 6
1. The sons of the prophets said to Elisha, See now, the place where we dwell before you is too strait for us.
2. Let us go, we pray you, to the Yarden, and take there everyone a beam, and let us make us a place there, where we may dwell. He answered, Go you.
3. One said, Be pleased, I pray you, to go with your servants. He answered, I will go.
4. So he went with them. When they came to the Yarden, they cut down wood.
5. But as one was felling a beam, the axe head fell into the water; and he cried, and said, Alas, my master! for it was borrowed.
6. The person of Elohim asked, "Where did it fall?" He showed him the place. He cut down a stick, threw it in there, and made the iron float.
7. He said, "Take it." So he put out his hand and took it.
8. Now the king of Aram was warring against Israel; and he took counsel with his servants, saying, In such and such a place shall be my camp.
9. The person of Elohim sent to the king of Israel, saying, Beware that you not pass such a place; for there the Syrians are coming down.
10. The king of Israel sent to the place which the person of Elohim told him and warned him of; and he saved himself there, not once nor twice.
11. The heart of the king of Aram was sore troubled for this thing; and he called his servants, and said to them, Won't you show me which of us is for the king of Israel?
12. One of his servants said, No, my lord, O king; but Elisha, the prophet who is in Israel, tells the king of Israel the words that you speak in your bedchamber.
13. He said, Go and see where he is, that I may send and get him. It was told him, saying, Behold, he is in Dothan.
14. Therefore sent he there horses, and chariots, and a great army: and they came by night, and surrounded the city.
15. When the servant of the person of Elohim was risen early, and gone forth, behold, an army with horses and chariots was round about the city. His servant said to him, Alas, my master! how shall we do?
16. He answered, Don't be afraid; for those who are with us are more than those who are with them.
17. Elisha prayed, and said, YHWH, Please open his eyes, that he may see. YHWH opened the eyes of the young person; and he saw: and behold, the mountain was full of horses and chariots of fire round about Elisha.
18. When they came down to him, Elisha prayed to YHWH, and said, Please smite this people with blindness. He struck them with blindness according to the word of Elisha.
19. Elisha said to them, This is not the way, neither is this the city: follow me, and I will bring you to the person whom you seek. He led them to Shomron.
20. It happened, when they were come into Shomron, that Elisha said, YHWH, open the eyes of these men, that they may see. YHWH opened their eyes, and they saw; and behold, they were in the midst of Shomron.
21. The king of Israel said to Elisha, when he saw them, My father, shall I strike them? shall I strike them?
22. He answered, You shall not strike them: would you strike those whom you have taken captive with your sword and with your bow? set bread and water before them, that they may eat and drink, and go to their master.
23. He prepared great provision for them; and when they had eaten and drunk, he sent them away, and they went to their master. The bands of Aram came no more into the land of Israel.
24. It happened after this, that Benhadad king of Aram gathered all his army, and went up, and besieged Shomron.
25. There was a great famine in Shomron: and behold, they besieged it, until a donkey's head was sold for eighty [pieces] of silver, and the fourth part of a kab of dove's dung for five [pieces] of silver.
26. As the king of Israel was passing by on the wall, there cried a woman to him, saying, Help, my lord, O king.
27. He said, If YHWH doesn't help you, whence shall I help you? out of the threshing floor, or out of the winepress?
28. The king said to her, What ails you? She answered, This woman said to me, Give your son, that we may eat him today, and we will eat my son tomorrow.
29. So we boiled my son, and ate him: and I said to her on the next day, Give your son, that we may eat him; and she has hid her son.
30. It happened, when the king heard the words of the woman, that he tore his clothes (now he was passing by on the wall); and the people looked, and behold, he had sackcloth within on his flesh.
31. Then he said, Elohim do so to me, and more also, if the head of Elisha the son of Shaphat shall stand on him this day.
32. But Elisha was sitting in his house, and the elders were sitting with him; and [the king] sent a person from before him: but before the messenger came to him, they said to the elders, See you how this son of a murderer has sent to take away my head? behold, when the messenger comes, shut the door, and hold the door fast against him: isn't the sound of his master's feet behind him?
33. While he was yet talking with them, behold, the messenger came down to him: and he said, Behold, this trouble is of YHWH; why should I wait for YHWH any longer?

2 Kings 7
1. Elisha said, Hear you the word of YHWH: thus says YHWH, Tomorrow about this time shall a measure of fine flour be [sold] for a shekel, and two measures of barley for a shekel, in the gate of Shomron.
2. Then the captain on whose hand the king leaned answered the person of Elohim, and said, Behold, if YHWH should make windows in heavens, might this thing be? He said, Behold, you shall see it with your eyes, but shall not eat of it.
3. Now there were four leprous men at the entrance of the gate: and they said one to another, Why sit we here until we die?
4. If we say, We will enter into the city, then the famine is in the city, and we shall die there; and if we sit still here, we die also. Now therefore come, and let us fall to the army of the Syrians: if they save us alive, we shall live; and if they kill us, we shall but die.
5. They rose up in the twilight, to go to the camp of the Syrians; and when they were come to the outermost part of the camp of the Syrians, behold, there was no one there.
6. For YHWH had made the army of the Syrians to hear a noise of chariots, and a noise of horses, even the noise of a great army: and they said one to another, Behold, the king of Israel has hired against us the kings of the Hittites, and the kings of the Egyptians, to come on us.
7. Therefore they arose and fled in the twilight, and left their tents, and their horses, and their donkeys, even the camp as it was, and fled for their life.
8. When these lepers came to the outermost part of the camp, they went into one tent, and ate and drink, and carried there silver, and gold, and clothing, and went and hid it; and they came back, and entered into another tent, and carried there also, and went and hid it.
9. Then they said one to another, We aren't doing right. This day is a day of good news, and we hold our peace: if we wait until the morning light, punishment will overtake us; now therefore come, let us go and tell the king's household.
10. So they came and called to the porter of the city; and they told them, saying, We came to the camp of the Syrians, and, behold, there was no one there, neither human voice, but the horses tied, and the donkeys tied, and the tents as they were.
11. He called the porters; and they told it to the king's household within.
12. The king arose in the night, and said to his servants, I will now show you what the Syrians have done to us. They know that we are hungry; therefore are they gone out of the camp to hide themselves in the field, saying, When they come out of the city, we shall take them alive, and get into the city.
13. One of his servants answered, Please let some take five of the horses that remain, which are left in the city (behold, they are as all the multitude of Israel who are left in it; behold, they are as all the multitude of Israel who are consumed); and let us send and see.
14. They took therefore two chariots with horses; and the king sent after the army of the Syrians, saying, Go and see.
15. They went after them to the Yarden: and behold, all the way was full of garments and vessels, which the Syrians had cast away in their haste. The messengers returned, and told the king.
16. The people went out, and plundered the camp of the Syrians. So a measure of fine flour was [sold] for a shekel, and two measures of barley for a shekel, according to the word of YHWH.
17. The king appointed the captain on whose hand they leaned to have the charge of the gate: and the people trod on him in the gate, and they died as the person of Elohim had said, who spoke when the king came down to him.
18. It happened, as the person of Elohim had spoken to the king, saying, Two measures of barley for a shekel, and a measure of fine flour for a shekel, shall be tomorrow about this time in the gate of Shomron;
19. and that captain answered the person of Elohim, and said, Now, behold, if YHWH should make windows in heavens, might such a thing be? and he said, Behold, you shall see it with your eyes, but shall not eat of it:
20. it happened even so to him; for the people trod on him in the gate, and he died.

2 Kings 8
1. Now Elisha had spoken to the woman, whose son he had restored to life, saying, Arise, and go you and your household, and sojourn wherever you can sojourn: for YHWH has called for a famine; and it shall also come on the land seven years.
2. The woman arose, and did according to the word of the person of Elohim; and she went with her household, and sojourned in the land of the Philistines seven years.
3. It happened at the seven years' end, that the woman returned out of the land of the Philistines: and she went forth to cry to the king for her house and for her land.
4. Now the king was talking with Gehazi the servant of the person of Elohim, saying, Please tell me all the great things that Elisha has done.
5. It happened, as they were telling the king how they had restored to life the one who was dead, that behold, the woman, whose son they had restored to life, cried to the king for her house and for her land. Gehazi said, My lord, O king, this is the woman, and this is her son, whom Elisha restored to life.
6. When the king asked the woman, she told him. So the king appointed to her a certain officer, saying, Restore all that was hers, and all the fruits of the field since the day that she left the land, even until now.
7. Elisha came to Dammeseq; and Benhadad the king of Aram was sick; and it was told him, saying, The person of Elohim is come here.
8. The king said to Hazael, Take a present in your hand, and go, meet the person of Elohim, and inquire of YHWH by him, saying, Shall I recover of this sickness?
9. So Hazael went to meet him, and took a present with him, even of every good thing of Dammeseq, forty camels' burden, and came and stood before him, and said, Your son Benhadad king of Aram has sent me to you, saying, Shall I recover of this sickness?
10. Elisha said to him, Go, tell him, You shall surely recover; however YHWH has shown me that he shall surely die.
11. They settled their gaze steadfastly [on him], until they were ashamed: and the person of Elohim wept.
12. Hazael said, Why weeps my lord? He answered, Because I know the brokenness that you will do to the children of Israel: their strongholds will you set on fire, and their young people will you kill with the sword, and will dash in pieces their little ones, and rip up their women with child.
13. Hazael said, But what is your servant, who is but a dog, that he should do this great thing? Elisha answered, YHWH has shown me that you shall be king over Aram.
14. Then he departed from Elisha, and came to his master; who said to him, What said Elisha to you? He answered, He told me that you would surely recover.
15. It happened on the next day, that he took the coverlet, and dipped it in water, and spread it on his face, so that he died: and Hazael reigned in his place.
16. In the fifth year of Joram the son of Achav king of Israel, Yehoshafat being then king of Yehudah, Jehoram the son of Yehoshafat king of Yehudah began to reign.
17. Thirty-two years old was he when he began to reign; and he reigned eight years in Yerushalayim.
18. He walked in the way of the kings of Israel, as did the house of Achav: for he had the daughter of Achav as wife; and he did what was broken in the sight of YHWH.
19. However YHWH would not destroy Yehudah, for Dawid his servant's sake, as he promised him to give to him a lamp for his children always.
20. In his days Edom revolted from under the hand of Yehudah, and made a king over themselves.
21. Then Joram passed over to Zair, and all his chariots with him: and he rose up by night, and struck the Edomites who surrounded him, and the captains of the chariots; and the people fled to their tents.
22. So Edom revolted from under the hand of Yehudah to this day. Then did Libnah revolt at the same time.
23. The rest of the acts of Joram, and all that he did, aren't they written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Yehudah?
24. Joram slept with his fathers, and was buried with his fathers in the city of Dawid; and Ahaziah his son reigned in his place.
25. In the twelfth year of Joram the son of Achav king of Israel did Ahaziah the son of Jehoram king of Yehudah begin to reign.
26. Twenty-two years old was Ahaziah when he began to reign; and he reigned one year in Yerushalayim. His mother's name was Athaliah the daughter of Omri king of Israel.
27. He walked in the way of the house of Achav, and did what was broken in the sight of YHWH, as did the house of Achav; for he was the son-in-law of the house of Achav.
28. He went with Joram the son of Achav to war against Hazael king of Aram at Ramoth Gilead: and the Syrians wounded Joram.
29. King Joram returned to be healed in Jezreel of the wounds which the Syrians had given him at Ramah, when he fought against Hazael king of Aram. Ahaziah the son of Jehoram king of Yehudah went down to see Joram the son of Achav in Jezreel, because he was sick.

2 Kings 9
1. Elisha the prophet called one of the sons of the prophets, and said to him, Gird up your waist, and take this vial of oil in your hand, and go to Ramoth Gilead.
2. When you come there, look out there Yehu the son of Yehoshafat the son of Nimshi, and go in, and make him arise up from among his brothers, and carry him to an inner chamber.
3. Then take the vial of oil, and pour it on his head, and say, Thus says YHWH, I have anointed you king over Israel. Then open the door, and flee, and don't wait.
4. So the young person, even the young person the prophet, went to Ramoth Gilead.
5. When he came, behold, the captains of the army were sitting; and he said, I have an errand to you, captain. Yehu said, To which of us all? He said, To you, O captain.
6. He arose, and went into the house; and he poured the oil on his head, and said to him, Thus says YHWH, the God of Israel, I have anointed you king over the people of YHWH, even over Israel.
7. You shall strike the house of Achav your master, that I may avenge the blood of my servants the prophets, and the blood of all the servants of YHWH, at the hand of Jezebel.
8. For the whole house of Achav shall perish; and I will cut off from Achav everyone who urinates against a wall, and the one who is shut up and the one who is left at large in Israel.
9. I will make the house of Achav like the house of Yerovam the son of Nebat, and like the house of Baasha the son of Ahijah.
10. The dogs shall eat Jezebel in the portion of Jezreel, and there shall be none to bury her. He opened the door, and fled.
11. Then Yehu came forth to the servants of his lord: and one said to him, Is all well? why came this mad fellow to you? They said to them, You know the person and what their talk was.
12. They said, It is false; tell us now. He said, Thus and thus spoke he to me, saying, Thus says YHWH, I have anointed you king over Israel.
13. Then they hurried, and took everyone their garment, and put it under him on the top of the stairs, and blew the trumpet, saying, Yehu is king.
14. So Yehu the son of Yehoshafat the son of Nimshi conspired against Joram. (Now Joram was keeping Ramoth Gilead, he and all Israel, because of Hazael king of Aram;
15. but king Joram was returned to be healed in Jezreel of the wounds which the Syrians had given him, when he fought with Hazael king of Aram.) Yehu said, If this be your mind, then let none escape and go forth out of the city, to go to tell it in Jezreel.
16. So Yehu rode in a chariot, and went to Jezreel; for Joram lay there. Ahaziah king of Yehudah was come down to see Joram.
17. Now the watchman was standing on the tower in Jezreel, and he spied the company of Yehu as he came, and said, I see a company. Joram said, Take a horseman, and send to meet them, and let him say, Is it peace?
18. So there went one on horseback to meet him, and said, Thus says the king, Is it peace? Yehu said, What have you to do with peace? turn you behind me. The watchman told, saying, The messenger came to them, but he isn't coming back.
19. Then he sent out a second on horseback, who came to them, and said, Thus says the king, Is it peace? Yehu answered, What have you to do with peace? turn you behind me.
20. The watchman told, saying, He came even to them, and isn't coming back: and the driving is like the driving of Yehu the son of Nimshi; for he drives furiously.
21. Joram said, Make ready. They made ready his chariot. Joram king of Israel and Ahaziah king of Yehudah went out, each in his chariot, and they went out to meet Yehu, and found him in the portion of Naboth the Jezreelite.
22. It happened, when Joram saw Yehu, that he said, Is it peace, Yehu? He answered, What peace, so long as the prostitution of your mother Jezebel and her witchcraft abound?
23. Joram turned his hands, and fled, and said to Ahaziah, There is treachery, Ahaziah.
24. Yehu drew his bow with his full strength, and struck Joram between his arms; and the arrow went out at his heart, and he sunk down in his chariot.
25. Then said [Yehu] to Bidkar his captain, Take up, and cast him in the portion of the field of Naboth the Jezreelite; for remember how that, when I and you rode together after Achav his father, YHWH laid this burden on him:
26. Surely I have seen yesterday the blood of Naboth, and the blood of his sons, says YHWH; and I will requite you in this plat, says YHWH. Now therefore take and cast him into the plat [of ground], according to the word of YHWH.
27. But when Ahaziah the king of Yehudah saw this, he fled by the way of the garden house. Yehu followed after him, and said, Smite him also in the chariot: [and they struck him] at the ascent of Gur, which is by Ibleam. He fled to Megiddo, and died there.
28. His servants carried him in a chariot to Yerushalayim, and buried him in his tomb with his fathers in the city of Dawid.
29. In the eleventh year of Joram the son of Achav began Ahaziah to reign over Yehudah.
30. When Yehu was come to Jezreel, Jezebel heard of it; and she painted her eyes, and attired her head, and looked out at the window.
31. As Yehu entered in at the gate, she said, Is it peace, you Zimri, your master's murderer?
32. He lifted up his face to the window, and said, Who is on my side? who? There looked out to him two or three eunuchs.
33. He said, Throw her down. So they threw her down; and some of her blood was sprinkled on the wall, and on the horses: and he trod her under foot.
34. When he was come in, he ate and drink; and he said, See now to this cursed woman, and bury her; for she is a king's daughter.
35. They went to bury her; but they found no more of her than the skull, and the feet, and the palms of her hands.
36. Therefore they came back, and told him. He said, This is the word of YHWH, which he spoke by his servant Eliyahu the Tishbite, saying, In the portion of Jezreel shall the dogs eat the flesh of Jezebel;
37. and the body of Jezebel shall be as dung on the face of the field in the portion of Jezreel, so that they shall not say, This is Jezebel.

2 Kings 10
1. Now Achav had seventy sons in Shomron. Yehu wrote letters, and sent to Shomron, to the rulers of Jezreel, even the elders, and to those who brought up [the sons of] Achav, saying,
2. Now as soon as this letter comes to you, seeing your master's sons are with you, and there are with you chariots and horses, a fortified city also, and armor;
3. look you out the best and meet of your master's sons, and set him on his father's throne, and fight for your master's house.
4. But they were exceedingly afraid, and said, Behold, the two kings didn't stand before him: how then shall we stand?
5. The one who was over the household, and the one who was over the city, the elders also, and those who brought up [the children], sent to Yehu, saying, We are your servants, and will do all that you shall bid us; we will not make anyone king: you do that which is good in your eyes.
6. Then he wrote a letter the second time to them, saying, If you be on my side, and if you will listen to my voice, take the heads of the men your master's sons, and come to me to Jezreel by tomorrow this time. Now the king's sons, being seventy persons, were with the great people of the city, who brought them up.
7. It happened, when the letter came to them, that they took the king's sons, and killed them, even seventy persons, and put their heads in baskets, and sent them to him to Jezreel.
8. There came a messenger, and told him, saying, They have brought the heads of the king's sons. He said, Lay you them in two heaps at the entrance of the gate until the morning.
9. It happened in the morning, that he went out, and stood, and said to all the people, You are righteous: behold, I conspired against my master, and killed him; but who struck all these?
10. Know now that there shall fall to the earth nothing of the word of YHWH, which YHWH spoke concerning the house of Achav: for YHWH has done that which he spoke by his servant Eliyahu.
11. So Yehu struck all that remained of the house of Achav in Jezreel, and all his great people, and his familiar friends, and his priests, until he left him none remaining.
12. He arose and departed, and went to Shomron. As he was at the shearing house of the shepherds in the way,
13. Yehu met with the brothers of Ahaziah king of Yehudah, and said, Who are you? They answered, We are the brothers of Ahaziah: and we go down to Greet the children of the king and the children of the queen.
14. He said, Take them alive. They took them alive, and killed them at the pit of the shearing house, even two and forty men; neither left he any of them.
15. When he was departed there, he lighted on Jehonadab the son of Rechab coming to meet him; and he greeted him, and said to him, Is your heart right, as my heart is with your heart? Jehonadab answered, It is. If it be, give me your hand. He gave him his hand; and he took him up to him into the chariot.
16. He said, Come with me, and see my zeal for YHWH. So they made him ride in his chariot.
17. When he came to Shomron, he struck all who remained to Achav in Shomron, until he had destroyed him, according to the word of YHWH, which he spoke to Eliyahu.
18. Yehu gathered all the people together, and said to them, Achav served Baal a little; but Yehu will serve him much.
19. Now therefore call to me all the prophets of Baal, all his worshippers, and all his priests; let none be wanting: for I have a great sacrifice [to do] to Baal; whoever shall be wanting, they shall not live. But Yehu did it in subtlety, to the intent that he might destroy the worshippers of Baal.
20. Yehu said, Sanctify a solemn assembly for Baal. They proclaimed it.
21. Yehu sent through all Israel: and all the worshippers of Baal came, so that there was not a person left that didn't come. They came into the house of Baal; and the house of Baal was filled from one end to another.
22. They said to the one who was over the vestry, Bring forth vestments for all the worshippers of Baal. He brought them forth vestments.
23. Yehu went, and Jehonadab the son of Rechab, into the house of Baal; and he said to the worshippers of Baal, Search, and look that there be here with you none of the servants of YHWH, but the worshippers of Baal only.
24. They went in to offer sacrifices and burnt offerings. Now Yehu had appointed him eighty men outside, and said, If any of the men whom I bring into your hands escape, [the one who lets him go], their life shall be for the life of him.
25. It happened, as soon as he had made an end of offering the burnt offering, that Yehu said to the guard and to the captains, Go in, and kill them; let none come forth. They struck them with the edge of the sword; and the guard and the captains cast them out, and went to the city of the house of Baal.
26. They brought forth the pillars that were in the house of Baal, and burned them.
27. They broke down the pillar of Baal, and broke down the house of Baal, and made it a latrine, to this day.
28. Thus Yehu destroyed Baal out of Israel.
29. However from the sins of Yerovam the son of Nebat, with which he made Israel to sin, Yehu didn't depart from after them, [to wit], the golden calves that were in Beit El, and that were in Dan.
30. YHWH said to Yehu, Because you have done well in executing that which is right in my eyes, [and] have done to the house of Achav according to all that was in my heart, your sons of the fourth generation shall sit on the throne of Israel.
31. But Yehu took no heed to walk in the law of YHWH, the God of Israel, with all his heart: he didn't depart from the sins of Yerovam, with which he made Israel to sin.
32. In those days YHWH began to cut off from Israel: and Hazael struck them in all the borders of Israel;
33. from the Yarden eastward, all the land of Gilead, the Gadites, and the Reubenites, and the Manassites, from Aroer, which is by the valley of the Arnon, even Gilead and Bashan.
34. Now the rest of the acts of Yehu, and all that he did, and all his might, aren't they written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel?
35. Yehu slept with his fathers; and they buried him in Shomron. Jehoahaz his son reigned in his place.
36. The time that Yehu reigned over Israel in Shomron was twenty-eight years.

2 Kings 11
1. Now when Athaliah the mother of Ahaziah saw that her son was dead, she arose and destroyed all the seed royal.
2. But Jehosheba, the daughter of king Joram, sister of Ahaziah, took Yoash the son of Ahaziah, and stole him away from among the king's sons who were slain, even him and his nurse, [and put them] in the bedchamber; and they hid him from Athaliah, so that he was not slain;
3. He was with her hid in the house of YHWH six years. Athaliah reigned over the land.
4. In the seventh year Yehoyada sent and fetched the captains over hundreds of the Carites and of the guard, and brought them to him into the house of YHWH; and he made a covenant with them, and took an oath of them in the house of YHWH, and shown them the king's son.
5. He commanded them, saying, This is the thing that you shall do: a third part of you, who come in on the Sabbath, shall be keepers of the watch of the king's house;
6. A third part shall be at the gate Sur; and a third part at the gate behind the guard: so shall you keep the watch of the house, and be a barrier.
7. The two companies of you, even all who go forth on the Sabbath, shall keep the watch of the house of YHWH about the king.
8. You shall compass the king round about, everyone with their weapons in their hand; and the one who comes within the ranks, let him be slain: and be you with the king when they go out, and when they come in.
9. The captains over hundreds did according to all that Yehoyada the priest commanded; and they took everyone their men, those who were to come in on the Sabbath, with those who were to go out on the Sabbath, and came to Yehoyada the priest.
10. The priest delivered to the captains over hundreds the spears and shields that had been king Dawid's, which were in the house of YHWH.
11. The guard stood, everyone with their weapons in their hand, from the right side of the house to the left side of the house, along by the altar and the house, by the king round about.
12. Then he brought out the king's son, and put the crown on him, and [gave him] the testimony; and they made him king, and anointed him; and they clapped their hands, and said, [Long] live the king.
13. When Athaliah heard the noise of the guard [and of] the people, she came to the people into the house of YHWH:
14. and she looked, and behold, the king stood by the pillar, as the manner was, and the captains and the trumpets by the king; and all the people of the land rejoiced, and blew trumpets. Then Athaliah tore her clothes, and cried, Treason! treason!
15. Yehoyada the priest commanded the captains of hundreds who were set over the army, and said to them, Have her forth between the ranks; and the one who follows her kill with the sword. For the priest said, Don't let her be slain in the house of YHWH.
16. So they made way for her; and she went by the way of the horses' entry to the king's house: and there was she slain.
17. Yehoyada made a covenant between YHWH and the king and the people, that they should be YHWH's people; between the king also and the people.
18. All the people of the land went to the house of Baal, and broke it down; his altars and his images broke they in pieces thoroughly, and killed Mattan the priest of Baal before the altars. The priest appointed officers over the house of YHWH.
19. He took the captains over hundreds, and the Carites, and the guard, and all the people of the land; and they brought down the king from the house of YHWH, and came by the way of the gate of the guard to the king's house. He sat on the throne of the kings.
20. So all the people of the land rejoiced, and the city was quiet. Athaliah they had slain with the sword at the king's house.
21. Jehoash was seven years old when he began to reign.

2 Kings 12
1. In the seventh year of Yehu began Jehoash to reign; and he reigned forty years in Yerushalayim: and his mother's name was Zibiah of Be'er Sheva.
2. Jehoash did that which was right in the eyes of YHWH all his days in which Yehoyada the priest instructed him.
3. However the high places were not taken away; the people still sacrificed and burnt incense in the high places.
4. Jehoash said to the priests, All the money of the holy things that is brought into the house of YHWH, in current money, the money of the persons for whom each a person is rated, and all the money that it comes into anyone's heart to bring into the house of YHWH,
5. let the priests take it to them, everyone from their acquaintance; and they shall repair the breaches of the house, wherever any breach shall be found.
6. But it was so, that in the three and twentieth year of king Jehoash the priests had not repaired the breaches of the house.
7. Then king Jehoash called for Yehoyada the priest, and for the [other] priests, and said to them, Why don't you repair the breaches of the house? now therefore take no [more] money from your acquaintance, but deliver it for the breaches of the house.
8. The priests consented that they should take no [more] money from the people, neither repair the breaches of the house.
9. But Yehoyada the priest took a chest, and bored a hole in the lid of it, and set it beside the altar, on the right side as one comes into the house of YHWH: and the priests who kept the threshold put therein all the money that was brought into the house of YHWH.
10. It was so, when they saw that there was much money in the chest, that the king's scribe and the high priest came up, and they put up in bags and counted the money that was found in the house of YHWH.
11. They gave the money that was weighed out into the hands of those who did the work, who had the oversight of the house of YHWH: and they paid it out to the carpenters and the builders, who worked on the house of YHWH,
12. and to the masons and the stone cutters, and for buying timber and hewn stone to repair the breaches of the house of YHWH, and for all that was laid out for the house to repair it.
13. But there were not made for the house of YHWH cups of silver, snuffers, basins, trumpets, any vessels of gold, or vessels of silver, of the money that was brought into the house of YHWH;
14. for they gave that to those who did the work, and repaired therewith the house of YHWH.
15. Moreover they didn't demand an accounting from the men into whose hand they delivered the money to give to those who did the work; for they dealt faithfully.
16. The money for the trespass offerings, and the money for the sin offerings, was not brought into the house of YHWH: it was the priests'.
17. Then Hazael king of Aram went up, and fought against Gath, and took it; and Hazael set his face to go up to Yerushalayim.
18. Jehoash king of Yehudah took all the holy things that Yehoshafat and Jehoram and Ahaziah, his fathers, kings of Yehudah, had dedicated, and his own holy things, and all the gold that was found in the treasures of the house of YHWH, and of the king's house, and sent it to Hazael king of Aram: and he went away from Yerushalayim.
19. Now the rest of the acts of Yoash, and all that he did, aren't they written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Yehudah?
20. His servants arose, and made a conspiracy, and struck Yoash at the house of Millo, [on the way] that goes down to Silla.
21. For Jozacar the son of Shimeath, and Jehozabad the son of Shomer, his servants, struck him, and he died; and they buried him with his fathers in the city of Dawid: and Amaziah his son reigned in his place.

2 Kings 13
1. In the three and twentieth year of Yoash the son of Ahaziah, king of Yehudah, Jehoahaz the son of Yehu began to reign over Israel in Shomron, [and reigned] seventeen years.
2. He did what was broken in the sight of YHWH, and followed the sins of Yerovam the son of Nebat, with which he made Israel to sin; he didn't depart from it.
3. The anger of YHWH was kindled against Israel, and he delivered them into the hand of Hazael king of Aram, and into the hand of Benhadad the son of Hazael, continually.
4. Jehoahaz begged YHWH, and YHWH listened to him; for he saw the oppression of Israel, how that the king of Aram oppressed them.
5. (YHWH gave Israel a savior, so that they went out from under the hand of the Syrians; and the children of Israel lived in their tents as before.
6. Nevertheless they didn't depart from the sins of the house of Yerovam, with which he made Israel to sin, but walked therein: and there remained the Asherah also in Shomron.)
7. For he didn't leave to Jehoahaz of the people save fifty horsemen, and ten chariots, and ten thousand footmen; for the king of Aram destroyed them, and made them like the dust in threshing.
8. Now the rest of the acts of Jehoahaz, and all that he did, and his might, aren't they written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel?
9. Jehoahaz slept with his fathers; and they buried him in Shomron: and Yoash his son reigned in his place.
10. In the thirty-seventh year of Yoash king of Yehudah began Jehoash the son of Jehoahaz to reign over Israel in Shomron, [and reigned] sixteen years.
11. He did what was broken in the sight of YHWH; he didn't depart from all the sins of Yerovam the son of Nebat, with which he made Israel to sin; but he walked therein.
12. Now the rest of the acts of Yoash, and all that he did, and his might with which he fought against Amaziah king of Yehudah, aren't they written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel?
13. Yoash slept with his fathers; and Yerovam sat on his throne: and Yoash was buried in Shomron with the kings of Israel.
14. Now Elisha was fallen sick of his sickness of which he died: and Yoash the king of Israel came down to him, and wept over him, and said, My father, my father, the chariots of Israel and the horsemen of it!
15. Elisha said to him, Take bow and arrows; and he took to him bow and arrows.
16. He said to the king of Israel, Put your hand on the bow; and he put his hand [on it]. Elisha laid his hands on the king's hands.
17. He said, Open the window eastward; and he opened it. Then Elisha said, Shoot; and he shot. He said, YHWH's arrow of victory, even the arrow of victory over Aram; for you shall strike the Syrians in Aphek, until you have consumed them.
18. He said, Take the arrows; and he took them. He said to the king of Israel, Smite on the ground; and he struck thrice, and stayed.
19. The person of Elohim was angry with him, and said, You should have struck five or six times: then had you struck Aram until you had consumed it, whereas now you shall strike Aram but thrice.
20. Elisha died, and they buried him. Now the bands of the Moabites invaded the land at the coming in of the year.
21. It happened, as they were burying a person, that behold, they spied a band; and they cast the person into the tomb of Elisha: and as soon as the person touched the bones of Elisha, they revived, and stood up on their feet.
22. Hazael king of Aram oppressed Israel all the days of Jehoahaz.
23. But YHWH was gracious to them, and had compassion on them, and had respect to them, because of his covenant with Avraham, Yitzhak, and Ya'akov, and would not destroy them, neither cast he them from his presence as yet.
24. Hazael king of Aram died; and Benhadad his son reigned in his place.
25. Jehoash the son of Jehoahaz took again out of the hand of Benhadad the son of Hazael the cities which he had taken out of the hand of Jehoahaz his father by war. Three times did Yoash strike him, and recovered the cities of Israel.

2 Kings 14
1. In the second year of Yoash son of Joahaz king of Israel began Amaziah the son of Yoash king of Yehudah to reign.
2. He was twenty-five years old when he began to reign; and he reigned twenty-nine years in Yerushalayim: and his mother's name was Jehoaddin of Yerushalayim.
3. He did that which was right in the eyes of YHWH, yet not like Dawid his father: he did according to all that Yoash his father had done.
4. However the high places were not taken away: the people still sacrificed and burnt incense in the high places.
5. It happened, as soon as the kingdom was established in his hand, that he killed his servants who had slain the king his father:
6. but the children of the murderers he didn't put to death; according to that which is written in the book of the law of Moshe, as YHWH commanded, saying, The fathers shall not be put to death for the children, nor the children be put to death for the fathers; but everyone shall die for their own sin.
7. He killed of Edom in the Valley of Salt ten thousand, and took Sela by war, and called the name of it Joktheel, to this day.
8. Then Amaziah sent messengers to Jehoash, the son of Jehoahaz son of Yehu, king of Israel, saying, Come, let us look one another in the face.
9. Jehoash the king of Israel sent to Amaziah king of Yehudah, saying, The thistle that was in Levanon sent to the cedar that was in Levanon, saying, Give your daughter to my son as wife: and there passed by a wild animal that was in Levanon, and trod down the thistle.
10. You have indeed struck Edom, and your heart has lifted you up: glory of it, and abide at home; for why should you meddle to [your] hurt, that you should fall, even you, and Yehudah with you?
11. But Amaziah would not hear. So Jehoash king of Israel went up; and he and Amaziah king of Yehudah looked one another in the face at Beth Shemesh, which belongs to Yehudah.
12. Yehudah was put to the worse before Israel; and they fled everyone to their tent.
13. Jehoash king of Israel took Amaziah king of Yehudah, the son of Jehoash the son of Ahaziah, at Beth Shemesh, and came to Yerushalayim, and broke down the wall of Yerushalayim from the gate of Efrayim to the corner gate, four hundred cubits.
14. He took all the gold and silver, and all the vessels that were found in the house of YHWH, and in the treasures of the king's house, the hostages also, and returned to Shomron.
15. Now the rest of the acts of Jehoash which he did, and his might, and how he fought with Amaziah king of Yehudah, aren't they written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel?
16. Jehoash slept with his fathers, and was buried in Shomron with the kings of Israel; and Yerovam his son reigned in his place.
17. Amaziah the son of Yoash king of Yehudah lived after the death of Jehoash son of Jehoahaz king of Israel fifteen years.
18. Now the rest of the acts of Amaziah, aren't they written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Yehudah?
19. They made a conspiracy against him in Yerushalayim; and he fled to Lachish: but they sent after him to Lachish, and killed him there.
20. They brought him on horses; and he was buried at Yerushalayim with his fathers in the city of Dawid.
21. All the people of Yehudah took Azaryah, who was sixteen years old, and made him king in the room of his father Amaziah.
22. He built Elath, and restored it to Yehudah, after that the king slept with his fathers.
23. In the fifteenth year of Amaziah the son of Yoash king of Yehudah Yerovam the son of Yoash king of Israel began to reign in Shomron, [and reigned] forty-one years.
24. He did what was broken in the sight of YHWH: he didn't depart from all the sins of Yerovam the son of Nebat, with which he made Israel to sin.
25. He restored the border of Israel from the entrance of Hamath to the sea of the Arabah, according to the word of YHWH, the God of Israel, which he spoke by his servant Jonah the son of Amittai, the prophet, who was of Gath Hepher.
26. For YHWH saw the affliction of Israel, that it was very bitter; for there was none shut up nor left at large, neither was there any helper for Israel.
27. YHWH didn't say that he would blot out the name of Israel from under the heavens; but he saved them by the hand of Yerovam the son of Yoash.
28. Now the rest of the acts of Yerovam, and all that he did, and his might, how he warred, and how he recovered Dammeseq, and Hamath, [which had belonged] to Yehudah, for Israel, aren't they written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel?
29. Yerovam slept with his fathers, even with the kings of Israel; and Zekharyah his son reigned in his place.

2 Kings 15
1. In the twenty-seventh year of Yerovam king of Israel began Azaryah son of Amaziah king of Yehudah to reign.
2. Sixteen years old was he when he began to reign; and he reigned fifty-two years in Yerushalayim: and his mother's name was Jecoliah of Yerushalayim.
3. He did that which was right in the eyes of YHWH, according to all that his father Amaziah had done.
4. However the high places were not taken away: the people still sacrificed and burnt incense in the high places.
5. YHWH struck the king, so that he was a leper to the day of his death, and lived in a separate house. Jotham the king's son was over the household, judging the people of the land.
6. Now the rest of the acts of Azaryah, and all that he did, aren't they written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Yehudah?
7. Azaryah slept with his fathers; and they buried him with his fathers in the city of Dawid: and Jotham his son reigned in his place.
8. In the thirty-eighth year of Azaryah king of Yehudah did Zekharyah the son of Yerovam reign over Israel in Shomron six months.
9. He did what was broken in the sight of YHWH, as his fathers had done: he didn't depart from the sins of Yerovam the son of Nebat, with which he made Israel to sin.
10. Shallum the son of Jabesh conspired against him, and struck him before the people, and killed him, and reigned in his place.
11. Now the rest of the acts of Zekharyah, behold, they are written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel.
12. This was the word of YHWH which he spoke to Yehu, saying, Your sons to the fourth generation shall sit on the throne of Israel. So it came to pass.
13. Shallum the son of Jabesh began to reign in the nine and thirtieth year of Uzziah king of Yehudah; and he reigned the space of a month in Shomron.
14. Menahem the son of Gadi went up from Tirzah, and came to Shomron, and struck Shallum the son of Jabesh in Shomron, and killed him, and reigned in his place.
15. Now the rest of the acts of Shallum, and his conspiracy which he made, behold, they are written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel.
16. Then Menahem struck Tiphsah, and all who were therein, and the borders of it, from Tirzah: because they didn't open to him, therefore he struck it; and all the women therein who were with child he ripped up.
17. In the nine and thirtieth year of Azaryah king of Yehudah began Menahem the son of Gadi to reign over Israel, [and reigned] ten years in Shomron.
18. He did what was broken in the sight of YHWH: he didn't depart all his days from the sins of Yerovam the son of Nebat, with which he made Israel to sin.
19. There came against the land Pul the king of Ashur; and Menahem gave Pul one thousand talents of silver, that his hand might be with him to confirm the kingdom in his hand.
20. Menahem exacted the money of Israel, even of all the mighty men of wealth, of each person fifty shekels of silver, to give to the king of Ashur. So the king of Ashur turned back, and didn't stay there in the land.
21. Now the rest of the acts of Menahem, and all that he did, aren't they written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel?
22. Menahem slept with his fathers; and Pekahiah his son reigned in his place.
23. In the fiftieth year of Azaryah king of Yehudah Pekahiah the son of Menahem began to reign over Israel in Shomron, [and reigned] two years.
24. He did what was broken in the sight of YHWH: he didn't depart from the sins of Yerovam the son of Nebat, with which he made Israel to sin.
25. Pekah the son of Remaliah, his captain, conspired against him, and struck him in Shomron, in the castle of the king's house, with Argob and Arieh; and with him were fifty men of the Gileadites: and he killed him, and reigned in his place.
26. Now the rest of the acts of Pekahiah, and all that he did, behold, they are written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel.
27. In the two and fiftieth year of Azaryah king of Yehudah Pekah the son of Remaliah began to reign over Israel in Shomron, [and reigned] twenty years.
28. He did what was broken in the sight of YHWH: he didn't depart from the sins of Yerovam the son of Nebat, with which he made Israel to sin.
29. In the days of Pekah king of Israel came Tiglath Pileser king of Ashur, and took Ijon, and Abel Beth Maacah, and Janoah, and Kedesh, and Hazor, and Gilead, and Galil, all the land of Naphtali; and he carried them captive to Ashur.
30. Hoshea the son of Elah made a conspiracy against Pekah the son of Remaliah, and struck him, and killed him, and reigned in his place, in the twentieth year of Jotham the son of Uzziah.
31. Now the rest of the acts of Pekah, and all that he did, behold, they are written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel.
32. In the second year of Pekah the son of Remaliah king of Israel began Jotham the son of Uzziah king of Yehudah to reign.
33. He was twenty-five years old when he began to reign; and he reigned sixteen years in Yerushalayim: and his mother's name was Jerusha the daughter of Tzadok.
34. He did that which was right in the eyes of YHWH; he did according to all that his father Uzziah had done.
35. However the high places were not taken away: the people still sacrificed and burned incense in the high places. He built the upper gate of the house of YHWH.
36. Now the rest of the acts of Jotham, and all that he did, aren't they written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Yehudah?
37. In those days YHWH began to send against Yehudah Rezin the king of Aram, and Pekah the son of Remaliah.
38. Jotham slept with his fathers, and was buried with his fathers in the city of Dawid his father: and Achaz his son reigned in his place.

2 Kings 16
1. In the seventeenth year of Pekah the son of Remaliah Achaz the son of Jotham king of Yehudah began to reign.
2. Twenty years old was Achaz when he began to reign; and he reigned sixteen years in Yerushalayim: and he didn't do that which was right in the eyes of YHWH his God, like Dawid his father.
3. But he walked in the way of the kings of Israel, yes, and made his son to pass through the fire, according to the abominations of the nations, whom YHWH cast out from before the children of Israel.
4. He sacrificed and burnt incense in the high places, and on the hills, and under every green tree.
5. Then Rezin king of Aram and Pekah son of Remaliah king of Israel came up to Yerushalayim to war: and they besieged Achaz, but could not overcome him.
6. At that time Rezin king of Aram recovered Elath to Aram, and drove the Jews from Elath; and the Syrians came to Elath, and lived there, to this day.
7. So Achaz sent messengers to Tiglath Pileser king of Ashur, saying, I am your servant and your son: come up, and save me out of the hand of the king of Aram, and out of the hand of the king of Israel, who rise up against me.
8. Achaz took the silver and gold that was found in the house of YHWH, and in the treasures of the king's house, and sent it for a present to the king of Ashur.
9. The king of Ashur listened to him; and the king of Ashur went up against Dammeseq, and took it, and carried [the people of] it captive to Kir, and killed Rezin.
10. King Achaz went to Dammeseq to meet Tiglath Pileser king of Ashur, and saw the altar that was at Dammeseq; and king Achaz sent to Urijah the priest the fashion of the altar, and the pattern of it, according to all the workmanship of it.
11. Urijah the priest built an altar: according to all that king Achaz had sent from Dammeseq, so did Urijah the priest make it against the coming of king Achaz from Dammeseq.
12. When the king was come from Dammeseq, the king saw the altar: and the king drew near to the altar, and offered thereon.
13. He burnt his burnt offering and his meal offering, and poured his drink offering, and sprinkled the blood of his peace offerings, on the altar.
14. The bronze altar, which was before YHWH, he brought from the forefront of the house, from between his altar and the house of YHWH, and put it on the north side of his altar.
15. King Achaz commanded Urijah the priest, saying, On the great altar burn the morning burnt offering, and the evening meal offering, and the king's burnt offering, and his meal offering, with the burnt offering of all the people of the land, and their meal offering, and their drink offerings; and sprinkle on it all the blood of the burnt offering, and all the blood of the sacrifice: but the bronze altar shall be for me to inquire by.
16. Thus did Urijah the priest, according to all that king Achaz commanded.
17. King Achaz cut off the panels of the bases, and removed the basin from off them, and took down the sea from off the bronze oxen that were under it, and put it on a pavement of stone.
18. The covered way for the Sabbath that they had built in the house, and the king's entry outside, turned he to the house of YHWH, because of the king of Ashur.
19. Now the rest of the acts of Achaz which he did, aren't they written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Yehudah?
20. Achaz slept with his fathers, and was buried with his fathers in the city of Dawid: and Chizkiyahu his son reigned in his place.

2 Kings 17
1. In the twelfth year of Achaz king of Yehudah began Hoshea the son of Elah to reign in Shomron over Israel, [and reigned] nine years.
2. He did what was broken in the sight of YHWH, yet not as the kings of Israel who were before him.
3. Against him came up Shalmaneser king of Ashur; and Hoshea became his servant, and brought him tribute.
4. The king of Ashur found conspiracy in Hoshea; for he had sent messengers to So king of Mitzrayim, and offered no tribute to the king of Ashur, as he had done year by year: therefore the king of Ashur shut him up, and bound him in prison.
5. Then the king of Ashur came up throughout all the land, and went up to Shomron, and besieged it three years.
6. In the ninth year of Hoshea the king of Ashur took Shomron, and carried Israel away to Ashur, and placed them in Halah, and on the Habor, the river of Gozan, and in the cities of the Medes.
7. It was so, because the children of Israel had sinned against YHWH their God, who brought them up out of the land of Mitzrayim from under the hand of Pharaoh king of Mitzrayim, and had revered other gods,
8. and walked in the statutes of the nations, whom YHWH cast out from before the children of Israel, and of the kings of Israel, which they made.
9. The children of Israel did secretly things that were not right against YHWH their God: and they built them high places in all their cities, from the tower of the watchmen to the fortified city;
10. and they set them up pillars and Asherim on every high hill, and under every green tree;
11. and there they burnt incense in all the high places, as did the nations whom YHWH carried away before them; and they worked wicked things to provoke YHWH to anger;
12. and they served idols, of which YHWH had said to them, You shall not do this thing.
13. Yet YHWH testified to Israel, and to Yehudah, by every prophet, and every seer, saying, Turn you from your broken ways, and keep my commandments and my statutes, according to all the law which I commanded your fathers, and which I sent to you by my servants the prophets.
14. Notwithstanding, they would not hear, but hardened their neck, like the neck of their fathers, who didn't believe in YHWH their God.
15. They rejected his statutes, and his covenant that he made with their fathers, and his testimonies which he testified to them; and they followed vanity, and became vain, and [went] after the nations that were round about them, concerning whom YHWH had charged those who they should not do like them.
16. They forsook all the commandments of YHWH their God, and made them molten images, even two calves, and made an Asherah, and worshiped all the army of the heavens, and served Baal.
17. They caused their sons and their daughters to pass through the fire, and used divination and enchantments, and sold themselves to do what was broken in the sight of YHWH, to provoke him to anger.
18. Therefore YHWH was very angry with Israel, and removed them out of his sight: there was none left but the tribe of Yehudah only.
19. Also Yehudah didn't keep the commandments of YHWH their God, but walked in the statutes of Israel which they made.
20. YHWH rejected all the seed of Israel, and afflicted them, and delivered them into the hand of spoilers, until he had cast them out of his sight.
21. For he tore Israel from the house of Dawid; and they made Yerovam the son of Nebat king: and Yerovam drove Israel from following YHWH, and made them sin a great sin.
22. The children of Israel walked in all the sins of Yerovam which he did; they didn't depart from them;
23. until YHWH removed Israel out of his sight, as he spoke by all his servants the prophets. So Israel was carried away out of their own land to Ashur to this day.
24. The king of Ashur brought men from Bavel, and from Cuthah, and from Avva, and from Hamath and Sepharvaim, and placed them in the cities of Shomron instead of the children of Israel; and they possessed Shomron, and lived in the cities of it.
25. So it was, at the beginning of their dwelling there, that they didn't revere YHWH: therefore YHWH sent lions among them, which killed some of them.
26. Therefore they spoke to the king of Ashur, saying, The nations which you have carried away, and placed in the cities of Shomron, don't know the law of the god of the land: therefore he has sent lions among them, and behold, they kill them, because they don't know the law of the god of the land.
27. Then the king of Ashur commanded, saying, Carry there one of the priests whom you brought from there; and let them go and dwell there, and let him teach them the law of the god of the land.
28. So one of the priests whom they had carried away from Shomron came and lived in Beit El, and taught them how they should revere YHWH.
29. However every nation made gods of their own, and put them in the houses of the high places which the Samaritans had made, every nation in their cities in which they lived.
30. The men of Bavel made Succoth Benoth, and the men of Cuth made Nergal, and the men of Hamath made Ashima,
31. and the Avvites made Nibhaz and Tartak; and the Sepharvites burnt their children in the fire to Adrammelech and Anammelech, the gods of Sepharvaim.
32. So they revered YHWH, and made to them from among themselves priests of the high places, who sacrificed for them in the houses of the high places.
33. They revered YHWH, and served their own gods, after the manner of the nations from among whom they had been carried away.
34. To this day they do after the former manner: they don't revere YHWH, neither do they after their statutes, or after their ordinances, or after the law or after the commandment which YHWH commanded the children of Ya'akov, whom he named Israel;
35. with whom YHWH had made a covenant, and charged them, saying, You shall not revere other gods, nor bow yourselves to them, nor serve them, nor sacrifice to them:
36. but YHWH, who brought you up out of the land of Mitzrayim with great power and with an outstretched arm, him shall you fear, and to him shall you bow yourselves, and to him shall you sacrifice:
37. and the statutes and the ordinances, and the law and the commandment, which he wrote for you, you shall observe to do forevermore; and you shall not revere other gods:
38. and the covenant that I have made with you you shall not forget; neither shall you revere other gods:
39. but YHWH your God shall you fear; and he will deliver you out of the hand of all your enemies.
40. However they did not listen, but they did after their former manner.
41. So these nations revered YHWH, and served their engraved images; their children likewise, and their children's children, as did their fathers, so do they to this day.

2 Kings 18
1. Now it happened in the third year of Hoshea son of Elah king of Israel, that Chizkiyahu the son of Achaz king of Yehudah began to reign.
2. He was twenty-five years old when he began to reign; and he reigned twenty-nine years in Yerushalayim: and his mother's name was Abi the daughter of Zekharyah.
3. He did that which was right in the eyes of YHWH, according to all that Dawid his father had done.
4. He removed the high places, and broke the pillars, and cut down the Asherah: and he broke in pieces the bronze serpent that Moshe had made; for to those days the children of Israel did burn incense to it; and he called it Nehushtan.
5. He trusted in YHWH, the God of Israel; so that after him was none like him among all the kings of Yehudah, nor [among them] that were before him.
6. For he joined with YHWH; he didn't depart from following him, but kept his commandments, which YHWH commanded Moshe.
7. YHWH was with him; wherever he went forth he prospered: and he rebelled against the king of Ashur, and didn't serve him.
8. He struck the Philistines to Azzah and the borders of it, from the tower of the watchmen to the fortified city.
9. It happened in the fourth year of king Chizkiyahu, which was the seventh year of Hoshea son of Elah king of Israel, that Shalmaneser king of Ashur came up against Shomron, and besieged it.
10. At the end of three years they took it: in the sixth year of Chizkiyahu, which was the ninth year of Hoshea king of Israel, Shomron was taken.
11. The king of Ashur carried Israel away to Ashur, and put them in Halah, and on the Habor, the river of Gozan, and in the cities of the Medes,
12. because they didn't obey the voice of YHWH their God, but transgressed his covenant, even all that Moshe the servant of YHWH commanded, and would not hear it, nor do it.
13. Now in the fourteenth year of king Chizkiyahu did Sennacherib king of Ashur come up against all the fortified cities of Yehudah, and took them.
14. Chizkiyahu king of Yehudah sent to the king of Ashur to Lachish, saying, I have offended; return from me: that which you put on me will I bear. The king of Ashur appointed to Chizkiyahu king of Yehudah three hundred talents of silver and thirty talents of gold.
15. Chizkiyahu gave [him] all the silver that was found in the house of YHWH, and in the treasures of the king's house.
16. At that time did Chizkiyahu cut off [the gold from] the doors of the temple of YHWH, and [from] the pillars which Chizkiyahu king of Yehudah had overlaid, and gave it to the king of Ashur.
17. The king of Ashur sent Tartan and Rabsaris and Rabshakeh from Lachish to king Chizkiyahu with a great army to Yerushalayim. They went up and came to Yerushalayim. When they were come up, they came and stood by the conduit of the upper pool, which is in the highway of the fuller's field.
18. When they had called to the king, there came out to them Eliakim the son of Hilkiah, who was over the household, and Shebnah the scribe, and Joah the son of Asaph the recorder.
19. Rabshakeh said to them, Say you now to Chizkiyahu, Thus says the great king, the king of Ashur, What confidence is this in which you trust?
20. You say (but they are but vain words), [There is] counsel and strength for the war. Now on whom do you trust, that you have rebelled against me?
21. Now, behold, you trust on the staff of this bruised reed, even on Mitzrayim; whereon if someone lean, it will go into their hand, and pierce it: so is Pharaoh king of Mitzrayim to all who trust on him.
22. But if you tell me, We trust in YHWH our God; isn't that the one whose high places and whose altars Chizkiyahu has taken away, and has said to Yehudah and to Yerushalayim, You shall worship before this altar in Yerushalayim?
23. Now therefore, Please give pledges to my master the king of Ashur, and I will give you two thousand horses, if you are able on your part to set riders on them.
24. How then can you turn away the face of one captain of the least of my master's servants, and put your trust on Mitzrayim for chariots and for horsemen?
25. Am I now come up without YHWH against this place to destroy it? YHWH said to me, Go up against this land, and destroy it.
26. Then said Eliakim the son of Hilkiah, and Shebnah, and Joah, to Rabshakeh, Please speak to your servants in the Syrian language; for we understand it: and don't speak with us in the Jews' language, in the ears of the people who are on the wall.
27. But Rabshakeh said to them, Has my master sent me to your master, and to you, to speak these words? Hasn't he sent me to the people who sit on the wall, to eat their own dung, and to drink their own water with you?
28. Then Rabshakeh stood, and cried with a loud voice in the Jews' language, and spoke, saying, Hear you the word of the great king, the king of Ashur.
29. Thus says the king, Don't let Chizkiyahu deceive you; for he will not be able to deliver you out of his hand:
30. neither let Chizkiyahu make you trust in YHWH, saying, YHWH will surely deliver us, and this city shall not be given into the hand of the king of Ashur.
31. Don't listen to Chizkiyahu: for thus says the king of Ashur, Make your peace with me, and come out to me; and eat you everyone of their vine, and everyone of their fig tree, and everyone drink the waters of their own cistern;
32. Until I come and take you away to a land like your own land, a land of grain and new wine, a land of bread and vineyards, a land of olive trees and of honey, that you may live, and not die: and don't listen to Chizkiyahu, when he persuades you, saying, YHWH will deliver us.
33. Has any of the gods of the nations ever delivered his land out of the hand of the king of Ashur?
34. Where are the gods of Hamath, and of Arpad? where are the gods of Sepharvaim, of Hena, and Ivvah? have they delivered Shomron out of my hand?
35. Who are they among all the gods of the countries, that have delivered their country out of my hand, that YHWH should deliver Yerushalayim out of my hand?
36. But the people held their peace, and answered him not a word; for the king's commandment was, saying, Don't answer him.
37. Then came Eliakim the son of Hilkiah, who was over the household, and Shebna the scribe, and Joah the son of Asaph the recorder, to Chizkiyahu with their clothes torn, and told him the words of Rabshakeh.

2 Kings 19
1. It happened, when king Chizkiyahu heard it, that he tore his clothes, and covered himself with sackcloth, and went into the house of YHWH.
2. He sent Eliakim, who was over the household, and Shebna the scribe, and the elders of the priests, covered with sackcloth, to Yeshayahu the prophet the son of Amoz.
3. They said to him, Thus says Chizkiyahu, This day is a day of trouble, and of rebuke, and of rejection; for the children are come to the birth, and there is not strength to bring forth.
4. It may be YHWH your God will hear all the words of Rabshakeh, whom the king of Ashur his master has sent to defy the living Elohim, and will rebuke the words which YHWH your God has heard. Therefore lift up your prayer for the remnant that is left.
5. So the servants of king Chizkiyahu came to Yeshayahu.
6. Yeshayahu said to them, Thus shall you tell your master, Thus says YHWH, Don't be afraid of the words that you have heard, with which the servants of the king of Ashur have blasphemed me.
7. Behold, I will put a spirit in him, and he shall hear news, and shall return to his own land; and I will cause him to fall by the sword in his own land.
8. So Rabshakeh returned, and found the king of Ashur warring against Libnah; for he had heard that he was departed from Lachish.
9. When he heard say of Tirhakah king of Ethiopia, Behold, he is come out to fight against you, he sent messengers again to Chizkiyahu, saying,
10. Thus shall you speak to Chizkiyahu king of Yehudah, saying, Don't let your God in whom you trust deceive you, saying, Yerushalayim shall not be given into the hand of the king of Ashur.
11. Behold, you have heard what the kings of Ashur have done to all lands, by destroying them utterly: and shall you be delivered?
12. Have the gods of the nations delivered them, which my fathers have destroyed, Gozan, and Haran, and Rezeph, and the children of Eden that were in Telassar?
13. Where is the king of Hamath, and the king of Arpad, and the king of the city of Sepharvaim, of Hena, and Ivvah?
14. Chizkiyahu received the letter from the hand of the messengers, and read it; and Chizkiyahu went up to the house of YHWH, and spread it before YHWH.
15. Chizkiyahu prayed before YHWH, and said, YHWH, the God of Israel, who sit [above] the cherubim, you are the Elohim, even you alone, of all the kingdoms of the earth; you have made heavens and earth.
16. Incline your ear, YHWH, and hear; open your eyes, YHWH, and see; and hear the words of Sennacherib, with which he has sent him to defy the living Elohim.
17. Of a truth, YHWH, the kings of Ashur have laid waste the nations and their lands,
18. and have cast their gods into the fire; for they were no gods, but the work of people's hands, wood and stone; therefore they have destroyed them.
19. Now therefore, YHWH our God, save you us, I beg you, out of his hand, that all the kingdoms of the earth may know that you YHWH are Elohim alone.
20. Then Yeshayahu the son of Amoz sent to Chizkiyahu, saying, Thus says YHWH, the God of Israel, Whereas you have prayed to me against Sennacherib king of Ashur, I have heard [you].
21. This is the word that YHWH has spoken concerning him: The virgin daughter of Tzion has despised you and ridiculed you; the daughter of Yerushalayim has shaken her head at you.
22. Whom have you defied and blasphemed? and against whom have you exalted your voice and lifted up your eyes on high? [even] against the Holy One of Israel.
23. By your messengers you have defied YHWH, and have said, With the multitude of my chariots am I come up to the height of the mountains, to the innermost parts of Levanon; and I will cut down the tall cedars of it, and the choice fir trees of it; and I will enter into his farthest lodging place, the forest of his fruitful field.
24. I have dug and drunk strange waters, and with the sole of my feet will I dry up all the rivers of Mitzrayim.
25. Haven't you heard how I have done it long ago, and formed it of ancient times? now have I brought it to pass, that it should be yours to lay waste fortified cities into ruinous heaps.
26. Therefore their inhabitants were of small power, they were dismayed and confounded; they were as the grass of the field, and as the green herb, as the grass on the housetops, and as grain blasted before it is grown up.
27. But I know your sitting down, and your going out, and your coming in, and your raging against me.
28. Because of your raging against me, and because your arrogance is come up into my ears, therefore will I put my hook in your nose, and my bridle in your lips, and I will turn you back by the way by which you came.
29. This shall be the sign to you: You shall eat this year that which grows of itself, and in the second year that which springs of the same; and in the third year sow you, and reap, and plant vineyards, and eat the fruit of it.
30. The remnant that has escaped of the house of Yehudah shall again take root downward, and bear fruit upward.
31. For out of Yerushalayim shall go forth a remnant, and out of Har Tzion those who shall escape: the zeal of YHWH shall perform this.
32. Therefore thus says YHWH concerning the king of Ashur, He shall not come to this city, nor shoot an arrow there, neither shall he come before it with shield, nor cast up a mound against it.
33. By the way that he came, by the same shall he return, and he shall not come to this city, says YHWH.
34. For I will defend this city to save it, for my own sake, and for my servant Dawid's sake.
35. It happened that night, that the angel of YHWH went forth, and struck in the camp of the Assyrians one hundred eighty-five thousand: and when men arose early in the morning, behold, these were all dead bodies.
36. So Sennacherib king of Ashur departed, and went and returned, and lived at Ninveh.
37. It happened, as he was worshipping in the house of Nisroch his god, that Adrammelech and Sharezer struck him with the sword: and they escaped into the land of Ararat. Esar Haddon his son reigned in his place.

2 Kings 20
1. In those days was Chizkiyahu sick to death. Yeshayahu the prophet the son of Amoz came to him, and said to him, Thus says YHWH, Set your house in order: for you shall die, and not live.
2. Then he turned his face to the wall, and prayed to YHWH, saying,
3. Remember now, YHWH, I beg you, how I have walked before you in truth and with a perfect heart, and have done that which is good in your sight. Chizkiyahu wept sore.
4. It happened, before Yeshayahu was gone out into the middle part of the city, that the word of YHWH came to him, saying,
5. Turn back, and tell Chizkiyahu the prince of my people, Thus says YHWH, the God of Dawid your father, I have heard your prayer, I have seen your tears: behold, I will heal you; on the third day you shall go up to the house of YHWH.
6. I will add to your days fifteen years; and I will deliver you and this city out of the hand of the king of Ashur; and I will defend this city for my own sake, and for my servant Dawid's sake.
7. Yeshayahu said, Take a cake of figs. They took and laid it on the boil, and he recovered.
8. Chizkiyahu said to Yeshayahu, What shall be the sign that YHWH will heal me, and that I shall go up to the house of YHWH the third day?
9. Yeshayahu said, This shall be the sign to you from YHWH, that YHWH will do the thing that he has spoken: shall the shadow go forward ten steps, or go back ten steps?
10. Chizkiyahu answered, It is a light thing for the shadow to decline ten steps: nay, but let the shadow return backward ten steps.
11. Yeshayahu the prophet cried to YHWH; and he brought the shadow ten steps backward, by which it had gone down on the dial of Achaz.
12. At that time Berodach Baladan the son of Baladan, king of Bavel, sent letters and a present to Chizkiyahu; for he had heard that Chizkiyahu had been sick.
13. Chizkiyahu listened to them, and shown them all the house of his precious things, the silver, and the gold, and the spices, and the precious oil, and the house of his armor, and all that was found in his treasures: there was nothing in his house, nor in all his dominion, that Chizkiyahu didn't show them.
14. Then came Yeshayahu the prophet to king Chizkiyahu, and said to him, What said these men? and from whence came they to you? Chizkiyahu said, They are come from a far country, even from Bavel.
15. He said, What have they seen in your house? Chizkiyahu answered, All that is in my house have they seen: there is nothing among my treasures that I have not shown them.
16. Yeshayahu said to Chizkiyahu, Hear the word of YHWH.
17. Behold, the days come, that all that is in your house, and that which your fathers have laid up in store to this day, shall be carried to Bavel: nothing shall be left, says YHWH.
18. Of your sons who shall issue from you, whom you shall father, shall they take away; and they shall be eunuchs in the palace of the king of Bavel.
19. Then said Chizkiyahu to Yeshayahu, Good is the word of YHWH which you have spoken. He said moreover, Isn't it so, if peace and truth shall be in my days?
20. Now the rest of the acts of Chizkiyahu, and all his might, and how he made the pool, and the conduit, and brought water into the city, aren't they written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Yehudah?
21. Chizkiyahu slept with his fathers; and Menashe his son reigned in his place.

2 Kings 21
1. Menashe was twelve years old when he began to reign; and he reigned fifty-five years in Yerushalayim: and his mother's name was Hephzibah.
2. He did what was broken in the sight of YHWH, after the abominations of the nations whom YHWH cast out before the children of Israel.
3. For he built again the high places which Chizkiyahu his father had destroyed; and he reared up altars for Baal, and made an Asherah, as did Achav king of Israel, and worshiped all the army of the heavens, and served them.
4. He built altars in the house of YHWH, of which YHWH said, In Yerushalayim will I put my name.
5. He built altars for all the army of the heavens in the two courts of the house of YHWH.
6. He made his son to pass through the fire, and practiced sorcery, and used enchantments, and dealt with those who had familiar spirits, and with wizards: he worked much brokenness in the sight of YHWH, to provoke him to anger.
7. He set the engraved image of Asherah, that he had made, in the house of which YHWH said to Dawid and to Shlomo his son, In this house, and in Yerushalayim, which I have chosen out of all the tribes of Israel, will I put my name forever;
8. neither will I cause the feet of Israel to wander any more out of the land which I gave their fathers, if only they will observe to do according to all that I have commanded them, and according to all the law that my servant Moshe commanded them.
9. But they didn't listen: and Menashe seduced them to do that which is brokenness more than did the nations whom YHWH destroyed before the children of Israel.
10. YHWH spoke by his servants the prophets, saying,
11. Because Menashe king of Yehudah has done these abominations, and has done wickedly above all that the Amorites did, who were before him, and has made Yehudah also to sin with his idols;
12. therefore thus says YHWH, the God of Israel, Behold, I bring such brokenness on Yerushalayim and Yehudah, that whoever hears of it, both their ears shall tingle.
13. I will stretch over Yerushalayim the line of Shomron, and the plummet of the house of Achav; and I will wipe Yerushalayim as a person wipes a dish, wiping it and turning it upside down.
14. I will cast off the remnant of my inheritance, and deliver them into the hand of their enemies; and they shall become a prey and a spoil to all their enemies;
15. because they have done that which is brokenness in my sight, and have provoked me to anger, since the day their fathers came forth out of Mitzrayim, even to this day.
16. Moreover Menashe shed innocent blood very much, until he had filled Yerushalayim from one end to another; besides his sin with which he made Yehudah to sin, in doing what was broken in the sight of YHWH.
17. Now the rest of the acts of Menashe, and all that he did, and his sin that he sinned, aren't they written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Yehudah?
18. Menashe slept with his fathers, and was buried in the garden of his own house, in the garden of Uzza: and Amon his son reigned in his place.
19. Amon was twenty-two years old when he began to reign; and he reigned two years in Yerushalayim: and his mother's name was Meshullemeth the daughter of Haruz of Jotbah.
20. He did what was broken in the sight of YHWH, as did Menashe his father.
21. He walked in all the way that his father walked in, and served the idols that his father served, and worshiped them:
22. and he forsook YHWH, the God of his fathers, and didn't walk in the way of YHWH.
23. The servants of Amon conspired against him, and put the king to death in his own house.
24. But the people of the land killed all those who had conspired against king Amon; and the people of the land made Yoshiyahu his son king in his place.
25. Now the rest of the acts of Amon which he did, aren't they written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Yehudah?
26. He was buried in his tomb in the garden of Uzza: and Yoshiyahu his son reigned in his place.

2 Kings 22
1. Yoshiyahu was eight years old when he began to reign; and he reigned thirty-one years in Yerushalayim: and his mother's name was Jedidah the daughter of Adaiah of Bozkath.
2. He did that which was right in the eyes of YHWH, and walked in all the way of Dawid his father, and didn't turn aside to the right hand or to the left.
3. It happened in the eighteenth year of king Yoshiyahu, that the king sent Shaphan, the son of Azaliah the son of Meshullam, the scribe, to the house of YHWH, saying,
4. Go up to Hilkiah the high priest, that he may sum the money which is brought into the house of YHWH, which the keepers of the threshold have gathered of the people:
5. and let them deliver it into the hand of the workmen who have the oversight of the house of YHWH; and let them give it to the workmen who are in the house of YHWH, to repair the breaches of the house,
6. to the carpenters, and to the builders, and to the masons, and for buying timber and hewn stone to repair the house.
7. However there was no reckoning made with them of the money that was delivered into their hand; for they dealt faithfully.
8. Hilkiah the high priest said to Shaphan the scribe, I have found the book of the law in the house of YHWH. Hilkiah delivered the book to Shaphan, and he read it.
9. Shaphan the scribe came to the king, and brought the king word again, and said, Your servants have emptied out the money that was found in the house, and have delivered it into the hand of the workmen who have the oversight of the house of YHWH.
10. Shaphan the scribe told the king, saying, Hilkiah the priest has delivered me a book. Shaphan read it before the king.
11. It happened, when the king had heard the words of the book of the law, that he tore his clothes.
12. The king commanded Hilkiah the priest, and Ahikam the son of Shaphan, and Achbor the son of Micaiah, and Shaphan the scribe, and Asaiah the king's servant, saying,
13. Go you, inquire of YHWH for me, and for the people, and for all Yehudah, concerning the words of this book that is found; for great is the wrath of YHWH that is kindled against us, because our fathers have not listened to the words of this book, to do according to all that which is written concerning us.
14. So Hilkiah the priest, and Ahikam, and Achbor, and Shaphan, and Asaiah, went to Huldah the prophetess, the wife of Shallum the son of Tikvah, the son of Harhas, keeper of the wardrobe (now she lived in Yerushalayim in the second quarter); and they talked with her.
15. She said to them, Thus says YHWH, the God of Israel: Tell you the one who sent you to me,
16. Thus says YHWH, Behold, I will bring harm on this place, and on the inhabitants of it, even all the words of the book which the king of Yehudah has read.
17. Because they have forsaken me, and have burned incense to other gods, that they might provoke me to anger with all the work of their hands, therefore my wrath shall be kindled against this place, and it shall not be quenched.
18. But to the king of Yehudah, who sent you to inquire of YHWH, thus shall you tell him, Thus says YHWH, the God of Israel: As touching the words which you have heard,
19. because your heart was tender, and you did humble yourself before YHWH, when you heard what I spoke against this place, and against the inhabitants of it, that they should become a desolation and a curse, and have torn your clothes, and wept before me; I also have heard you, says YHWH.
20. Therefore, behold, I will gather you to your fathers, and you shall be gathered to your grave in peace, neither shall your eyes see all the brokenness which I will bring on this place. They brought the king word again.

2 Kings 23
1. The king sent, and they gathered to him all the elders of Yehudah and of Yerushalayim.
2. The king went up to the house of YHWH, and all the people of Yehudah and all the inhabitants of Yerushalayim with him, and the priests, and the prophets, and all the people, both small and great: and he read in their ears all the words of the book of the covenant which was found in the house of YHWH.
3. The king stood by the pillar, and made a covenant before YHWH, to walk after YHWH, and to keep his commandments, and his testimonies, and his statutes, with all [his] heart, and all [his] soul, to confirm the words of this covenant that were written in this book: and all the people stood to the covenant.
4. The king commanded Hilkiah the high priest, and the priests of the second order, and the keepers of the threshold, to bring forth out of the temple of YHWH all the vessels that were made for Baal, and for the Asherah, and for all the army of the heavens, and he burned them outside of Yerushalayim in the fields of the Kidron, and carried the ashes of them to Beit El.
5. He put down the idolatrous priests, whom the kings of Yehudah had ordained to burn incense in the high places in the cities of Yehudah, and in the places round about Yerushalayim; those also who burned incense to Baal, to the sun, and to the moon, and to the planets, and to all the army of the heavens.
6. He brought out the Asherah from the house of YHWH, outside of Yerushalayim, to the brook Kidron, and burned it at the brook Kidron, and beat it to dust, and cast the dust of it on the graves of the common people.
7. He broke down the houses of the sodomites, that were in the house of YHWH, where the women wove hangings for the Asherah.
8. He brought all the priests out of the cities of Yehudah, and defiled the high places where the priests had burned incense, from Geba to Be'er Sheva; and they broke down the high places of the gates that were at the entrance of the gate of Yehoshua the governor of the city, which were on a person's left hand at the gate of the city.
9. Nevertheless the priests of the high places didn't come up to the altar of YHWH in Yerushalayim, but they ate unleavened bread among their brothers.
10. They defiled Topheth, which is in the valley of the children of Hinnom, that no one might make their son or their daughter to pass through the fire to Molech.
11. He took away the horses that the kings of Yehudah had given to the sun, at the entrance of the house of YHWH, by the chamber of Natan Melech the officer, who was in the court; and he burned the chariots of the sun with fire.
12. The altars that were on the roof of the upper chamber of Achaz, which the kings of Yehudah had made, and the altars which Menashe had made in the two courts of the house of YHWH, did the king break down, and beat [them] down from there, and cast the dust of them into the brook Kidron.
13. The high places that were before Yerushalayim, which were on the right hand of the mountain of corruption, which Shlomo the king of Israel had built for Ashtoreth the abomination of the Sidonians, and for Chemosh the abomination of Moab, and for Milcom the abomination of the children of Ammon, did the king defile.
14. He broke in pieces the pillars, and cut down the Asherim, and filled their places with the bones of people.
15. Moreover the altar that was at Beit El, and the high place which Yerovam the son of Nebat, who made Israel to sin, had made, even that altar and the high place he broke down; and he burned the high place and beat it to dust, and burned the Asherah.
16. As Yoshiyahu turned himself, he spied the tombs that were there in the mountain; and they sent, and took the bones out of the tombs, and burned them on the altar, and defiled it, according to the word of YHWH which the person of Elohim proclaimed, who proclaimed these things.
17. Then he said, What monument is that which I see? The men of the city told him, It is the tomb of the person of Elohim, who came from Yehudah, and proclaimed these things that you have done against the altar of Beit El.
18. He said, Let him be; let no one move their bones. So they let his bones alone, with the bones of the prophet who came out of Shomron.
19. All the houses also of the high places that were in the cities of Shomron, which the kings of Israel had made to provoke [YHWH] to anger, Yoshiyahu took away, and did to them according to all the acts that he had done in Beit El.
20. He killed all the priests of the high places that were there, on the altars, and burned people's bones on them; and he returned to Yerushalayim.
21. The king commanded all the people, saying, Keep the Passover to YHWH your God, as it is written in this book of the covenant.
22. Surely there was not kept such a Passover from the days of the judges who judged Israel, nor in all the days of the kings of Israel, nor of the kings of Yehudah;
23. but in the eighteenth year of king Yoshiyahu was this Passover kept to YHWH in Yerushalayim.
24. Moreover those who had familiar spirits, and the wizards, and the teraphim, and the idols, and all the abominations that were seen in the land of Yehudah and in Yerushalayim, did Yoshiyahu put away, that he might confirm the words of the law which were written in the book that Hilkiah the priest found in the house of YHWH.
25. Like him was there no king before him, who turned to YHWH with all his heart, and with all his soul, and with all his might, according to all the law of Moshe; neither after him arose there any like him.
26. Notwithstanding, YHWH didn't turn from the fierceness of his great wrath, with which his anger was kindled against Yehudah, because of all the provocation with which Menashe had provoked him.
27. YHWH said, I will remove Yehudah also out of my sight, as I have removed Israel, and I will cast off this city which I have chosen, even Yerushalayim, and the house of which I said, My name shall be there.
28. Now the rest of the acts of Yoshiyahu, and all that he did, aren't they written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Yehudah?
29. In his days Pharaoh Necoh king of Mitzrayim went up against the king of Ashur to the river Perat: and king Yoshiyahu went against him; and [Pharaoh Necoh] killed him at Megiddo, when he had seen him.
30. His servants carried him in a chariot dead from Megiddo, and brought him to Yerushalayim, and buried him in his own tomb. The people of the land took Jehoahaz the son of Yoshiyahu, and anointed him, and made him king in his father's place.
31. Jehoahaz was twenty-three years old when he began to reign; and he reigned three months in Yerushalayim: and his mother's name was Hamutal the daughter of Yirmeyahu of Libnah.
32. He did what was broken in the sight of YHWH, according to all that his fathers had done.
33. Pharaoh Necoh put him in bonds at Riblah in the land of Hamath, that he might not reign in Yerushalayim; and put the land to a tribute of one hundred talents of silver, and a talent of gold.
34. Pharaoh Necoh made Eliakim the son of Yoshiyahu king in the room of Yoshiyahu his father, and changed his name to Jehoiakim: but he took Jehoahaz away; and he came to Mitzrayim, and died there.
35. Jehoiakim gave the silver and the gold to Pharaoh; but they taxed the land to give the money according to the commandment of Pharaoh: they exacted the silver and the gold of the people of the land, of everyone according to their taxation, to give it to Pharaoh Necoh.
36. Jehoiakim was twenty-five years old when he began to reign; and he reigned eleven years in Yerushalayim: and his mother's name was Zebidah the daughter of Pedaiah of Rumah.
37. He did what was broken in the sight of YHWH, according to all that his fathers had done.

2 Kings 24
1. In his days Nebuchadnezzar king of Bavel came up, and Jehoiakim became his servant three years: then he turned and rebelled against him.
2. YHWH sent against him bands of the Chaldeans, and bands of the Syrians, and bands of the Moabites, and bands of the children of Ammon, and sent them against Yehudah to destroy it, according to the word of YHWH, which he spoke by his servants the prophets.
3. Surely at the commandment of YHWH came this on Yehudah, to remove them out of his sight, for the sins of Menashe, according to all that he did,
4. and also for the innocent blood that he shed; for he filled Yerushalayim with innocent blood: and YHWH would not pardon.
5. Now the rest of the acts of Jehoiakim, and all that he did, aren't they written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Yehudah?
6. So Jehoiakim slept with his fathers; and Jehoiachin his son reigned in his place.
7. The king of Mitzrayim didn't come again out of his land any more; for the king of Bavel had taken, from the brook of Mitzrayim to the river Perat, all that pertained to the king of Mitzrayim.
8. Jehoiachin was eighteen years old when he began to reign; and he reigned in Yerushalayim three months: and his mother's name was Nehushta the daughter of Elnathan of Yerushalayim.
9. He did what was broken in the sight of YHWH, according to all that his father had done.
10. At that time the servants of Nebuchadnezzar king of Bavel came up to Yerushalayim, and the city was besieged.
11. Nebuchadnezzar king of Bavel came to the city, while his servants were besieging it;
12. and Jehoiachin the king of Yehudah went out to the king of Bavel, he, and his mother, and his servants, and his princes, and his officers: and the king of Bavel took him in the eighth year of his reign.
13. He carried out there all the treasures of the house of YHWH, and the treasures of the king's house, and cut in pieces all the vessels of gold, which Shlomo king of Israel had made in the temple of YHWH, as YHWH had said.
14. He carried away all Yerushalayim, and all the princes, and all the mighty men of valor, even ten thousand captives, and all the craftsmen and the smiths; none remained, save the poorest sort of the people of the land.
15. He carried away Jehoiachin to Bavel; and the king's mother, and the king's wives, and his officers, and the chief men of the land, carried he into captivity from Yerushalayim to Bavel.
16. All the men of might, even seven thousand, and the craftsmen and the smiths one thousand, all of them strong and apt for war, even them the king of Bavel brought captive to Bavel.
17. The king of Bavel made Mattaniah, [Jehoiachin's] father's brother, king is his place, and changed his name to Tzidkiyahu.
18. Tzidkiyahu was twenty-one years old when he began to reign; and he reigned eleven years in Yerushalayim: and his mother's name was Hamutal the daughter of Yirmeyahu of Libnah.
19. He did what was broken in the sight of YHWH, according to all that Jehoiakim had done.
20. For through the anger of YHWH did it happen in Yerushalayim and Yehudah, until he had cast them out from his presence. Tzidkiyahu rebelled against the king of Bavel.

2 Kings 25
1. It happened in the ninth year of his reign, in the tenth month, in the tenth day of the month, that Nebuchadnezzar king of Bavel came, he and all his army, against Yerushalayim, and encamped against it; and they built forts against it round about.
2. So the city was besieged to the eleventh year of king Tzidkiyahu.
3. On the ninth day of the [fourth] month the famine was sore in the city, so that there was no bread for the people of the land.
4. Then a breach was made in the city, and all the men of war [fled] by night by the way of the gate between the two walls, which was by the king's garden (now the Chaldeans were against the city round about); and [the king] went by the way of the Arabah.
5. But the army of the Chaldeans pursued after the king, and overtook him in the plains of Yericho; and all his army was scattered from him.
6. Then they took the king, and carried him up to the king of Bavel to Riblah; and they gave judgment on him.
7. They killed the sons of Tzidkiyahu before his eyes, and put out the eyes of Tzidkiyahu, and bound him in fetters, and carried him to Bavel.
8. Now in the fifth month, on the seventh day of the month, which was the nineteenth year of king Nebuchadnezzar, king of Bavel, came Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard, a servant of the king of Bavel, to Yerushalayim.
9. He burnt the house of YHWH, and the king's house; and all the houses of Yerushalayim, even every great house, burnt he with fire.
10. All the army of the Chaldeans, who were [with] the captain of the guard, broke down the walls of Yerushalayim round about.
11. The residue of the people who were left in the city, and those who fell away, who fell to the king of Bavel, and the residue of the multitude, did Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard carry away captive.
12. But the captain of the guard left of the poorest of the land to work the vineyards and fields.
13. The pillars of brass that were in the house of YHWH, and the bases and the bronze sea that were in the house of YHWH, did the Chaldeans break in pieces, and carried the brass of them to Bavel.
14. The pots, and the shovels, and the snuffers, and the spoons, and all the vessels of brass with which they ministered, took they away.
15. The fire pans, and the basins, that which was of gold, in gold, and that which was of silver, in silver, the captain of the guard took away.
16. The two pillars, the one sea, and the bases, which Shlomo had made for the house of YHWH, the brass of all these vessels was without weight.
17. The height of the one pillar was eighteen cubits, and a capital of brass was on it; and the height of the capital was three cubits, with network and pomegranates on the capital round about, all of brass: and like to these had the second pillar with network.
18. The captain of the guard took Seraiah the chief priest, and Zephaniah the second priest, and the three keepers of the threshold:
19. and out of the city he took an officer who was set over the men of war; and five men of those who saw the king's face, who were found in the city; and the scribe, the captain of the army, who mustered the people of the land; and sixty men of the people of the land, who were found in the city.
20. Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard took them, and brought them to the king of Bavel to Riblah.
21. The king of Bavel struck them, and put them to death at Riblah in the land of Hamath. So Yehudah was carried away captive out of his land.
22. As for the people who were left in the land of Yehudah, whom Nebuchadnezzar king of Bavel had left, even over them he made Gedaliah the son of Ahikam, the son of Shaphan, governor.
23. Now when all the captains of the forces, they and their men, heard that the king of Bavel had made Gedaliah governor, they came to Gedaliah to Mizpah, even Ishmael the son of Nethaniah, and Johanan the son of Kareah, and Seraiah the son of Tanhumeth the Netophathite, and Jaazaniah the son of the Maacathite, they and their men.
24. Gedaliah swore to them and to their men, and said to them, Don't be afraid because of the servants of the Chaldeans: dwell in the land, and serve the king of Bavel, and it shall be well with you.
25. But it happened in the seventh month, that Ishmael the son of Nethaniah, the son of Elishama, of the royal seed came, and ten men with him, and struck Gedaliah, so that he died, and the Jews and the Chaldeans that were with him at Mizpah.
26. All the people, both small and great, and the captains of the forces, arose, and came to Mitzrayim; for they were afraid of the Chaldeans.
27. It happened in the seven and thirtieth year of the captivity of Jehoiachin king of Yehudah, in the twelfth month, on the seven and twentieth day of the month, that Evilmerodach king of Bavel, in the year that he began to reign, did lift up the head of Jehoiachin king of Yehudah out of prison;
28. and he spoke kindly to him, and set his throne above the throne of the kings who were with him in Bavel,
29. and changed his prison garments. [Jehoiachin] ate bread before him continually all the days of his life:
30. and for his allowance, there was a continual allowance given him of the king, every day a portion, all the days of his life.

1 Chronicles 1
1. Adam, Seth, Enosh,
2. Kenan, Mahalalel, Jared,
3. Enoch, Methuselah, Lamech,
4. Noah, Shem, Ham, and Japheth.
5. The sons of Japheth: Gomer, and Magog, and Madai, and Javan, and Tubal, and Meshech, and Tiras.
6. The sons of Gomer: Ashkenaz, and Diphath, and Togarmah.
7. The sons of Javan: Elishah, and Tarshish, Kittim, and Rodanim.
8. The sons of Ham: Cush, and Mizraim, Put, and Canaan.
9. The sons of Cush: Seba, and Havilah, and Sabta, and Raama, and Sabteca. The sons of Raamah: Sheba, and Dedan.
10. Cush became the father of Nimrod; he began to be a mighty one in the earth.
11. Mizraim became the father of Ludim, and Anamim, and Lehabim, and Naphtuhim,
12. and Pathrusim, and Casluhim (from whence came the Philistines), and Caphtorim.
13. Canaan became the father of Tzidon his firstborn, and Heth,
14. and the Jebusite, and the Amorite, and the Girgashite,
15. and the Hivite, and the Arkite, and the Sinite,
16. and the Arvadite, and the Zemarite, and the Hamathite.
17. The sons of Shem: Elam, and Asshur, and Arpachshad, and Lud, and Aram, and Uz, and Hul, and Gether, and Meshech.
18. Arpachshad became the father of Shelah, and Shelah became the father of Eber.
19. To Eber were born two sons: the name of the one was Peleg; for in his days the earth was divided; and his brother's name was Joktan.
20. Joktan became the father of Almodad, and Sheleph, and Hazarmaveth, and Jerah,
21. and Hadoram, and Uzal, and Diklah,
22. and Ebal, and Abimael, and Sheba,
23. and Ophir, and Havilah, and Jobab. All these were the sons of Joktan.
24. Shem, Arpachshad, Shelah,
25. Eber, Peleg, Reu,
26. Serug, Nahor, Terah,
27. Abram (the same is Avraham).
28. The sons of Avraham: Yitzhak, and Ishmael.
29. These are their generations: the firstborn of Ishmael, Nebaioth; then Kedar, and Adbeel, and Mibsam,
30. Mishma, and Dumah, Massa, Hadad, and Tema,
31. Jetur, Naphish, and Kedemah. These are the sons of Ishmael.
32. The sons of Keturah, Avraham's concubine: she bore Zimran, and Jokshan, and Medan, and Midian, and Ishbak, and Shuah. The sons of Jokshan: Sheba, and Dedan.
33. The sons of Midian: Ephah, and Epher, and Hanoch, and Abida, and Eldaah. All these were the sons of Keturah.
34. Avraham became the father of Yitzhak. The sons of Yitzhak: Esav, and Israel.
35. The sons of Esav: Eliphaz, Reuel, and Jeush, and Jalam, and Korah.
36. The sons of Eliphaz: Teman, and Omar, Zephi, and Gatam, Kenaz, and Timna, and Amalek.
37. The sons of Reuel: Nahath, Zerah, Shammah, and Mizzah.
38. The sons of Seir: Lotan, and Shobal, and Zibeon, and Anah, and Dishon, and Ezer, and Dishan.
39. The sons of Lotan: Hori, and Homam; and Timna was Lotan's sister.
40. The sons of Shobal: Alian, and Manahath, and Ebal, Shephi, and Onam. The sons of Zibeon: Aiah, and Anah.
41. The sons of Anah: Dishon. The sons of Dishon: Hamran, and Eshban, and Ithran, and Cheran.
42. The sons of Ezer: Bilhan, and Zaavan, Jaakan. The sons of Dishan: Uz, and Aran.
43. Now these are the kings who reigned in the land of Edom, before there resigned any king over the children of Israel: Bela the son of Beor; and the name of his city was Dinhabah.
44. Bela died, and Jobab the son of Zerah of Bozrah reigned in his place.
45. Jobab died, and Husham of the land of the Temanites reigned in his place.
46. Husham died, and Hadad the son of Bedad, who struck Midian in the field of Moab, reigned in his place; and the name of his city was Avith.
47. Hadad died, and Samlah of Masrekah reigned in his place.
48. Samlah died, and Shaul of Rehoboth by the River reigned in his place.
49. Shaul died, and Baal Hanan the son of Achbor reigned in his place.
50. Baal Hanan died, and Hadad reigned in his place; and the name of his city was Pai: and his wife's name was Mehetabel, the daughter of Matred, the daughter of Mezahab.
51. Hadad died. The chiefs of Edom were: chief Timna, chief Aliah, chief Jetheth,
52. chief Oholibamah, chief Elah, chief Pinon,
53. chief Kenaz, chief Teman, chief Mibzar,
54. chief Magdiel, chief Iram. These are the chiefs of Edom.

1 Chronicles 2
1. These are the children of Israel: Reuven, Shim'on, Levi, and Yehudah, Yissakhar, and Zevulun,
2. Dan, Yosef, and Binyamin, Naphtali, Gad, and Asher.
3. The sons of Yehudah: Er, and Onan, and Shelah; which three were born to him of Shua's daughter the Canaanitess. Er, Yehudah's firstborn, was wicked in the sight of YHWH; and he killed him.
4. Tamar his daughter-in-law bore him Perez and Zerah. All the sons of Yehudah were five.
5. The sons of Perez: Hezron, and Hamul.
6. The sons of Zerah: Zimri, and Ethan, and Heman, and Calcol, and Dara; five of them in all.
7. The sons of Carmi: Achar, the troubler of Israel, who committed a trespass in the devoted thing.
8. The sons of Ethan: Azaryah.
9. The sons also of Hezron, who were born to him: Jerahmeel, and Ram, and Chelubai.
10. Ram became the father of Amminadab, and Amminadab became the father of Nahshon, prince of the children of Yehudah;
11. and Nahshon became the father of Salma, and Salma became the father of Boaz,
12. and Boaz became the father of Obed, and Obed became the father of Yishai;
13. and Yishai became the father of his firstborn Eliab, and Abinadab the second, and Shimea the third,
14. Nethanel the fourth, Raddai the fifth,
15. Ozem the sixth, Dawid the seventh;
16. and their sisters were Zeruiah and Abigail. The sons of Zeruiah: Abishai, and Yoav, and Asahel, three.
17. Abigail bore Amasa; and the father of Amasa was Jether the Ishmaelite.
18. Kalev the son of Hezron became the father of [children] of Azubah [his] wife, and of Jerioth; and these were her sons: Jesher, and Shobab, and Ardon.
19. Azubah died, and Kalev took to him Ephrath, who bore him Hur.
20. Hur became the father of Uri, and Uri became the father of Bezalel.
21. Afterward Hezron went in to the daughter of Machir the father of Gilead, whom he took [as wife] when he was sixty years old; and she bore him Segub.
22. Segub became the father of Jair, who had twenty-three cities in the land of Gilead.
23. Geshur and Aram took the towns of Jair from them, with Kenath, and the villages of it, even sixty cities. All these were the sons of Machir the father of Gilead.
24. After that Hezron was dead in Kalev Ephrathah, then Abijah Hezron's wife bore him Ashhur the father of Tekoa.
25. The sons of Jerahmeel the firstborn of Hezron were Ram the firstborn, and Bunah, and Oren, and Ozem, Ahijah.
26. Jerahmeel had another wife, whose name was Atarah; she was the mother of Onam.
27. The sons of Ram the firstborn of Jerahmeel were Maaz, and Jamin, and Eker.
28. The sons of Onam were Shammai, and Jada. The sons of Shammai: Nadab, and Abishur.
29. The name of the wife of Abishur was Abihail; and she bore him Ahban, and Molid.
30. The sons of Nadab: Seled, and Appaim; but Seled died without children.
31. The sons of Appaim: Ishi. The sons of Ishi: Sheshan. The sons of Sheshan: Ahlai.
32. The sons of Jada the brother of Shammai: Jether, and Yonatan; and Jether died without children.
33. The sons of Yonatan: Peleth, and Zaza. These were the sons of Jerahmeel.
34. Now Sheshan had no sons, but daughters. Sheshan had a servant, an Egyptian, whose name was Jarha.
35. Sheshan gave his daughter to Jarha his servant as wife; and she bore him Attai.
36. Attai became the father of Natan, and Natan became the father of Zabad,
37. and Zabad became the father of Ephlal, and Ephlal became the father of Obed,
38. and Obed became the father of Yehu, and Yehu became the father of Azaryah,
39. and Azaryah became the father of Helez, and Helez became the father of Eleasah,
40. and Eleasah became the father of Sismai, and Sismai became the father of Shallum,
41. and Shallum became the father of Jekamiah, and Jekamiah became the father of Elishama.
42. The sons of Kalev the brother of Jerahmeel were Mesha his firstborn, who was the father of Ziph; and the sons of Mareshah the father of Chevron.
43. The sons of Chevron: Korah, and Tappuah, and Rekem, and Shema.
44. Shema became the father of Raham, the father of Jorkeam; and Rekem became the father of Shammai.
45. The son of Shammai was Maon; and Maon was the father of Beth Zur.
46. Ephah, Kalev's concubine, bore Haran, and Moza, and Gazez; and Haran became the father of Gazez.
47. The sons of Jahdai: Regem, and Jothan, and Geshan, and Pelet, and Ephah, and Shaaph.
48. Maacah, Kalev's concubine, bore Sheber and Tirhanah.
49. She bore also Shaaph the father of Madmannah, Sheva the father of Machbena, and the father of Gibea; and the daughter of Kalev was Achsah.
50. These were the sons of Kalev, the son of Hur, the firstborn of Ephrathah: Shobal the father of Kiriath Jearim,
51. Salma the father of Beit Lechem, Hareph the father of Beth Gader.
52. Shobal the father of Kiriath Jearim had sons: Haroeh, half of the Menuhoth.
53. The families of Kiriath Jearim: The Ithrites, and the Puthites, and the Shumathites, and the Mishraites; of them came the Zorathites and the Eshtaolites.
54. The sons of Salma: Beit Lechem, and the Netophathites, Atroth Beth Yoav, and half of the Manahathites, the Zorites.
55. The families of scribes who lived at Jabez: the Tirathites, the Shimeathites, the Sucathites. These are the Kenites who came of Hammath, the father of the house of Rechab.

1 Chronicles 3
1. Now these were the sons of Dawid, who were born to him in Chevron: the firstborn, Amnon, of Ahinoam the Jezreelitess; the second, Dani'el, of Abigail the Carmelitess;
2. the third, Avshalom the son of Maacah the daughter of Talmai king of Geshur; the fourth, Adonijah the son of Haggith;
3. the fifth, Shephatiah of Abital; the sixth, Ithream by Eglah his wife:
4. six were born to him in Chevron; and there he reigned seven years and six months. In Yerushalayim he reigned thirty-three years;
5. and these were born to him in Yerushalayim: Shimea, and Shobab, and Natan, and Shlomo, four, of Bathshua the daughter of Ammiel;
6. and Ibhar, and Elishama, and Eliphelet,
7. and Nogah, and Nepheg, and Japhia,
8. and Elishama, and Eliada, and Eliphelet, nine.
9. All these were the sons of Dawid, besides the sons of the concubines; and Tamar was their sister.
10. Shlomo's son was Rechavam, Abijah his son, Asa his son, Yehoshafat his son,
11. Joram his son, Ahaziah his son, Yoash his son,
12. Amaziah his son, Azaryah his son, Jotham his son,
13. Achaz his son, Chizkiyahu his son, Menashe his son,
14. Amon his son, Yoshiyahu his son.
15. The sons of Yoshiyahu: the firstborn Johanan, the second Jehoiakim, the third Tzidkiyahu, the fourth Shallum.
16. The sons of Jehoiakim: Jeconiah his son, Tzidkiyahu his son.
17. The sons of Jeconiah, the captive: Shealtiel his son,
18. and Malchiram, and Pedaiah, and Shenazzar, Jekamiah, Hoshama, and Nedabiah.
19. The sons of Pedaiah: Zerubbabel, and Shimei. The sons of Zerubbabel: Meshullam, and Hananiah; and Shelomith was their sister;
20. and Hashubah, and Ohel, and Berechiah, and Hasadiah, Jushab Hesed, five.
21. The sons of Hananiah: Pelatiah, and Jeshaiah; the sons of Rephaiah, the sons of Arnan, the sons of Obadiah, the sons of Shecaniah.
22. The sons of Shecaniah: Shemaiah. The sons of Shemaiah: Hattush, and Igal, and Bariah, and Neariah, and Shaphat, six.
23. The sons of Neariah: Elioenai, and Hizkiah, and Azrikam, three.
24. The sons of Elioenai: Hodaviah, and Eliashib, and Pelaiah, and Akkub, and Johanan, and Delaiah, and Anani, seven.

1 Chronicles 4
1. The sons of Yehudah: Perez, Hezron, and Carmi, and Hur, and Shobal.
2. Reaiah the son of Shobal became the father of Jahath; and Jahath became the father of Ahumai and Lahad. These are the families of the Zorathites.
3. These were [the sons of] the father of Etam: Jezreel, and Ishma, and Idbash; and the name of their sister was Hazzelelponi;
4. and Penuel the father of Gedor, and Ezer the father of Hushah. These are the sons of Hur, the firstborn of Ephrathah, the father of Beit Lechem.
5. Ashhur the father of Tekoa had two wives, Helah and Naarah.
6. Naarah bore him Ahuzzam, and Hepher, and Temeni, and Haahashtari. These were the sons of Naarah.
7. The sons of Helah were Zereth, Izhar, and Ethnan.
8. Hakkoz became the father of Anub, and Zobebah, and the families of Aharhel the son of Harum.
9. Jabez was more honorable than his brothers: and his mother named him Jabez, saying, Because I bore him with sorrow.
10. Jabez called on the God of Israel, saying, Oh that you would bless me indeed, and enlarge my border, and that your hand might be with me, and that you would keep me from harm, that it not be to my sorrow! Elohim granted him that which he requested.
11. Chelub the brother of Shuhah became the father of Mehir, who was the father of Eshton.
12. Eshton became the father of Beth Rapha, and Paseah, and Tehinnah the father of Ir Nahash. These are the men of Recah.
13. The sons of Kenaz: Othniel, and Seraiah. The sons of Othniel: Hathath.
14. Meonothai became the father of Ophrah: and Seraiah became the father of Yoav the father of Ge Harashim; for they were craftsmen.
15. The sons of Kalev the son of Jephunneh: Iru, Elah, and Naam; and the sons of Elah; and Kenaz.
16. The sons of Jehallelel: Ziph, and Ziphah, Tiria, and Asarel.
17. The sons of Ezrah: Jether, and Mered, and Epher, and Jalon; and she bore Miryam, and Shammai, and Ishbah the father of Eshtemoa.
18. His wife the Jewess bore Jered the father of Gedor, and Heber the father of Soco, and Jekuthiel the father of Zanoah. These are the sons of Bithiah the daughter of Pharaoh, whom Mered took.
19. The sons of the wife of Hodiah, the sister of Naham, were the father of Keilah the Garmite, and Eshtemoa the Maacathite.
20. The sons of Shimon: Amnon, and Rinnah, Ben Hanan, and Tilon. The sons of Ishi: Zoheth, and Ben Zoheth.
21. The sons of Shelah the son of Yehudah: Er the father of Lecah, and Laadah the father of Mareshah, and the families of the house of those who worked fine linen, of the house of Ashbea;
22. and Jokim, and the men of Cozeba, and Yoash, and Saraph, who had dominion in Moab, and Jashubilehem. The records are ancient.
23. These were the potters, and the inhabitants of Netaim and Gederah: there they lived with the king for his work.
24. The sons of Shim'on: Nemuel, and Jamin, Jarib, Zerah, Shaul;
25. Shallum his son, Mibsam his son, Mishma his son.
26. The sons of Mishma: Hammuel his son, Zaccur his son, Shimei his son.
27. Shimei had sixteen sons and six daughters; but his brothers didn't have many children, neither did all their family multiply like the children of Yehudah.
28. They lived at Be'er Sheva, and Moladah, and Hazarshual,
29. and at Bilhah, and at Ezem, and at Tolad,
30. and at Bethuel, and at Hormah, and at Ziklag,
31. and at Beth Marcaboth, and Hazar Susim, and at Beth Biri, and at Shaaraim. These were their cities to the reign of Dawid.
32. Their villages were Etam, and Ain, Rimmon, and Tochen, and Ashan, five cities;
33. and all their villages that were round about the same cities, to Baal. These were their habitations, and they have their genealogy.
34. Meshobab, and Jamlech, and Joshah the son of Amaziah,
35. and Joel, and Yehu the son of Joshibiah, the son of Seraiah, the son of Asiel,
36. and Elioenai, and Jaakobah, and Jeshohaiah, and Asaiah, and Adiel, and Jesimiel, and Benayahu,
37. and Ziza the son of Shiphi, the son of Allon, the son of Jedaiah, the son of Shimri, the son of Shemaiah--
38. these mentioned by name were princes in their families: and their fathers' houses increased greatly.
39. They went to the entrance of Gedor, even to the east side of the valley, to seek pasture for their flocks.
40. They found fat pasture and good, and the land was wide, and quiet, and peaceable; for those who lived there before were of Ham.
41. These written by name came in the days of Chizkiyahu king of Yehudah, and struck their tents, and the Meunim who were found there, and destroyed them utterly to this day, and lived in their place; because there was pasture there for their flocks.
42. Some of them, even of the sons of Shim'on, five hundred men, went to Mount Seir, having for their captains Pelatiah, and Neariah, and Rephaiah, and Uzziel, the sons of Ishi.
43. They struck the remnant of the Amalekites who escaped, and have lived there to this day.

1 Chronicles 5
1. The sons of Reuven the firstborn of Israel (for he was the firstborn; but, because he defiled his father's couch, his birthright was given to the sons of Yosef the son of Israel; and the genealogy is not to be reckoned after the birthright.
2. For Yehudah prevailed above his brothers, and of him came the prince; but the birthright was Yosef's:)
3. the sons of Reuven the firstborn of Israel: Hanoch, and Pallu, Hezron, and Carmi.
4. The sons of Joel: Shemaiah his son, Gog his son, Shimei his son,
5. Micah his son, Reaiah his son, Baal his son,
6. Beerah his son, whom Tilgath Pilneser king of Ashur carried away captive: he was prince of the Reubenites.
7. His brothers by their families, when the genealogy of their generations was reckoned: the chief, Jeiel, and Zekharyah,
8. and Bela the son of Azaz, the son of Shema, the son of Joel, who lived in Aroer, even to Nebo and Baal Meon:
9. and eastward he lived even to the entrance of the wilderness from the river Perat, because their livestock were multiplied in the land of Gilead.
10. In the days of Shaul, they made war with the Hagrites, who fell by their hand; and they lived in their tents throughout all the [land] east of Gilead.
11. The sons of Gad lived over against them, in the land of Bashan to Salecah:
12. Joel the chief, and Shapham the second, and Janai, and Shaphat in Bashan.
13. Their brothers of their fathers' houses: Michael, and Meshullam, and Sheba, and Jorai, and Jacan, and Zia, and Eber, seven.
14. These were the sons of Abihail, the son of Huri, the son of Jaroah, the son of Gilead, the son of Michael, the son of Jeshishai, the son of Jahdo, the son of Buz;
15. Ahi the son of Abdiel, the son of Guni, chief of their fathers' houses.
16. They lived in Gilead in Bashan, and in its towns, and in all the suburbs of Sharon, as far as their borders.
17. All these were reckoned by genealogies in the days of Jotham king of Yehudah, and in the days of Yerovam king of Israel.
18. The sons of Reuven, and the Gadites, and the half-tribe of Menashe, of valiant men, men able to bear buckler and sword, and to shoot with bow, and skillful in war, were forty-four thousand seven hundred and sixty, that were able to go forth to war.
19. They made war with the Hagrites, with Jetur, and Naphish, and Nodab.
20. They were helped against them, and the Hagrites were delivered into their hand, and all who were with them; for they cried to Elohim in the battle, and he was entreated of them, because they put their trust in him.
21. They took away their livestock; of their camels fifty thousand, and of sheep two hundred fifty thousand, and of donkeys two thousand, and of people one hundred thousand.
22. For there fell many slain, because the war was of Elohim. They lived in their place until the captivity.
23. The children of the half-tribe of Menashe lived in the land: they increased from Bashan to Baal Hermon and Senir and Mount Hermon.
24. These were the heads of their fathers' houses: even Epher, and Ishi, and Eliel, and Azriel, and Yirmeyahu, and Hodaviah, and Jahdiel, mighty men of valor, famous men, heads of their fathers' houses.
25. They trespassed against the God of their fathers, and played the prostitute after the gods of the peoples of the land, whom Elohim destroyed before them.
26. The God of Israel stirred up the spirit of Pul king of Ashur, and the spirit of Tilgath Pilneser king of Ashur, and he carried them away, even the Reubenites, and the Gadites, and the half-tribe of Menashe, and brought them to Halah, and Habor, and Hara, and to the river of Gozan, to this day.

1 Chronicles 6
1. The sons of Levi: Gershon, Kohath, and Merari.
2. The sons of Kohath: Amram, Izhar, and Chevron, and Uzziel.
3. The children of Amram: Aharon, and Moshe, and Miryam. The sons of Aharon: Nadab, and Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar.
4. Eleazar became the father of Phinehas, Phinehas became the father of Abishua,
5. and Abishua became the father of Bukki, and Bukki became the father of Uzzi,
6. and Uzzi became the father of Zerahiah, and Zerahiah became the father of Meraioth,
7. Meraioth became the father of Amariah, and Amariah became the father of Ahitub,
8. and Ahitub became the father of Tzadok, and Tzadok became the father of Ahimaaz,
9. and Ahimaaz became the father of Azaryah, and Azaryah became the father of Johanan,
10. and Johanan became the father of Azaryah, (he it is who executed the priest's office in the house that Shlomo built in Yerushalayim),
11. and Azaryah became the father of Amariah, and Amariah became the father of Ahitub,
12. and Ahitub became the father of Tzadok, and Tzadok became the father of Shallum,
13. and Shallum became the father of Hilkiah, and Hilkiah became the father of Azaryah,
14. and Azaryah became the father of Seraiah, and Seraiah became the father of Jehozadak;
15. Jehozadak went [into captivity], when YHWH carried away Yehudah and Yerushalayim by the hand of Nebuchadnezzar.
16. The sons of Levi: Gershom, Kohath, and Merari.
17. These are the names of the sons of Gershom: Libni and Shimei.
18. The sons of Kohath were Amram, and Izhar, and Chevron, and Uzziel.
19. The sons of Merari: Mahli and Mushi. These are the families of the Levites according to their fathers' [houses].
20. Of Gershom: Libni his son, Jahath his son, Zimmah his son,
21. Joah his son, Iddo his son, Zerah his son, Jeatherai his son.
22. The sons of Kohath: Amminadab his son, Korah his son, Assir his son,
23. Elkanah his son, and Ebiasaph his son, and Assir his son,
24. Tahath his son, Uriel his son, Uzziah his son, and Shaul his son.
25. The sons of Elkanah: Amasai, and Ahimoth.
26. As for Elkanah, the sons of Elkanah: Zophai his son, and Nahath his son,
27. Eliab his son, Jeroham his son, Elkanah his son.
28. The sons of Shmuel: the firstborn [Joel], and the second Abijah.
29. The sons of Merari: Mahli, Libni his son, Shimei his son, Uzzah his son,
30. Shimea his son, Haggiah his son, Asaiah his son.
31. These are they whom Dawid set over the service of song in the house of YHWH, after that the ark had rest.
32. They ministered with song before the tent of the tent of meeting, until Shlomo had built the house of YHWH in Yerushalayim: and they waited on their office according to their order.
33. These are those who waited, and their sons. Of the sons of the Kohathites: Heman the singer, the son of Joel, the son of Shmuel,
34. the son of Elkanah, the son of Jeroham, the son of Eliel, the son of Toah,
35. the son of Zuph, the son of Elkanah, the son of Mahath, the son of Amasai,
36. the son of Elkanah, the son of Joel, the son of Azaryah, the son of Zephaniah,
37. the son of Tahath, the son of Assir, the son of Ebiasaph, the son of Korah,
38. the son of Izhar, the son of Kohath, the son of Levi, the son of Israel.
39. His brother Asaph, who stood on his right hand, even Asaph the son of Berechiah, the son of Shimea,
40. the son of Michael, the son of Baaseiah, the son of Malchijah,
41. the son of Ethni, the son of Zerah, the son of Adaiah,
42. the son of Ethan, the son of Zimmah, the son of Shimei,
43. the son of Jahath, the son of Gershom, the son of Levi.
44. On the left hand their brothers the sons of Merari: Ethan the son of Kishi, the son of Abdi, the son of Malluch,
45. the son of Hashabiah, the son of Amaziah, the son of Hilkiah,
46. the son of Amzi, the son of Bani, the son of Shemer,
47. the son of Mahli, the son of Mushi, the son of Merari, the son of Levi.
48. Their brothers the Levites were appointed for all the service of the tent of the house of Elohim.
49. But Aharon and his sons offered on the altar of burnt offering, and on the altar of incense, for all the work of the most holy place, and to make atonement for Israel, according to all that Moshe the servant of Elohim had commanded.
50. These are the sons of Aharon: Eleazar his son, Phinehas his son, Abishua his son,
51. Bukki his son, Uzzi his son, Zerahiah his son,
52. Meraioth his son, Amariah his son, Ahitub his son,
53. Tzadok his son, Ahimaaz his son.
54. Now these are their dwelling places according to their encampments in their borders: to the sons of Aharon, of the families of the Kohathites (for theirs was the [first] lot),
55. to them they gave Chevron in the land of Yehudah, and the suburbs of it round about it;
56. but the fields of the city, and the villages of it, they gave to Kalev the son of Jephunneh.
57. To the sons of Aharon they gave the cities of refuge, Chevron; Libnah also with its suburbs, and Jattir, and Eshtemoa with its suburbs,
58. and Hilen with its suburbs, Debir with its suburbs,
59. and Ashan with its suburbs, and Beth Shemesh with its suburbs;
60. and out of the tribe of Binyamin, Geba with its suburbs, and Allemeth with its suburbs, and Anathoth with its suburbs. All their cities throughout their families were thirteen cities.
61. To the rest of the sons of Kohath [were given] by lot, out of the family of the tribe, out of the half-tribe, the half of Menashe, ten cities.
62. To the sons of Gershom, according to their families, out of the tribe of Yissakhar, and out of the tribe of Asher, and out of the tribe of Naphtali, and out of the tribe of Menashe in Bashan, thirteen cities.
63. To the sons of Merari [were given] by lot, according to their families, out of the tribe of Reuven, and out of the tribe of Gad, and out of the tribe of Zevulun, twelve cities.
64. The children of Israel gave to the Levites the cities with their suburbs.
65. They gave by lot out of the tribe of the children of Yehudah, and out of the tribe of the children of Shim'on, and out of the tribe of the children of Binyamin, these cities which are mentioned by name.
66. Some of the families of the sons of Kohath had cities of their borders out of the tribe of Efrayim.
67. They gave to them the cities of refuge, Shekhem in the hill country of Efrayim with its suburbs; Gezer also with its suburbs,
68. and Jokmeam with its suburbs, and Beth Horon with its suburbs,
69. and Aijalon with its suburbs, and Gath Rimmon with its suburbs;
70. and out of the half-tribe of Menashe, Aner with its suburbs, and Bileam with its suburbs, for the rest of the family of the sons of Kohath.
71. To the sons of Gershom [were given], out of the family of the half-tribe of Menashe, Golan in Bashan with its suburbs, and Ashtaroth with its suburbs;
72. and out of the tribe of Yissakhar, Kedesh with its suburbs, Daberath with its suburbs,
73. and Ramoth with its suburbs, and Anem with its suburbs;
74. and out of the tribe of Asher, Mashal with its suburbs, and Abdon with its suburbs,
75. and Hukok with its suburbs, and Rehob with its suburbs;
76. and out of the tribe of Naphtali, Kedesh in Galil with its suburbs, and Hammon with its suburbs, and Kiriathaim with its suburbs.
77. To the rest of [the Levites], the sons of Merari, [were given], out of the tribe of Zevulun, Rimmono with its suburbs, Tabor with its suburbs;
78. and beyond the Yarden at Yericho, on the east side of the Yarden, [were given them], out of the tribe of Reuven, Bezer in the wilderness with its suburbs, and Jahzah with its suburbs,
79. and Kedemoth with its suburbs, and Mephaath with its suburbs;
80. and out of the tribe of Gad, Ramoth in Gilead with its suburbs, and Mahanaim with its suburbs,
81. and Heshbon with its suburbs, and Jazer with its suburbs.

1 Chronicles 7
1. Of the sons of Yissakhar: Tola, and Puah, Jashub, and Shimron, four.
2. The sons of Tola: Uzzi, and Rephaiah, and Jeriel, and Jahmai, and Ibsam, and Shemuel, heads of their fathers' houses, [to wit], of Tola; mighty men of valor in their generations: their number in the days of Dawid was twenty-two thousand six hundred.
3. The sons of Uzzi: Izrahiah. The sons of Izrahiah: Michael, and Obadiah, and Joel, Isshiah, five; all of them chief men.
4. With them, by their generations, after their fathers' houses, were bands of the army for war, thirty-six thousand; for they had many wives and sons.
5. Their brothers among all the families of Yissakhar, mighty men of valor, reckoned in all by genealogy, were eighty-seven thousand.
6. [The sons of] Binyamin: Bela, and Becher, and Jediael, three.
7. The sons of Bela: Ezbon, and Uzzi, and Uzziel, and Jerimoth, and Iri, five; heads of fathers' houses, mighty men of valor; and they were reckoned by genealogy twenty-two thousand thirty-four.
8. The sons of Becher: Zemirah, and Yoash, and Eliezer, and Elioenai, and Omri, and Jeremoth, and Abijah, and Anathoth, and Alemeth. All these were the sons of Becher.
9. They were reckoned by genealogy, after their generations, heads of their fathers' houses, mighty men of valor, twenty thousand two hundred.
10. The sons of Jediael: Bilhan. The sons of Bilhan: Jeush, and Binyamin, and Ehud, and Chenaanah, and Zethan, and Tarshish, and Ahishahar.
11. All these were sons of Jediael, according to the heads of their fathers' [houses], mighty men of valor, seventeen thousand and two hundred, who were able to go forth in the army for war.
12. Shuppim also, and Huppim, the sons of Ir, Hushim, the sons of Aher.
13. The sons of Naphtali: Jahziel, and Guni, and Jezer, and Shallum, the sons of Bilhah.
14. The sons of Menashe: Asriel, whom his concubine the Aramitess bore: she bore Machir the father of Gilead:
15. and Machir took a wife of Huppim and Shuppim, whose sister's name was Maacah; and the name of the second was Zelophehad: and Zelophehad had daughters.
16. Maacah the wife of Machir bore a son, and she named him Peresh; and the name of his brother was Sheresh; and his sons were Ulam and Rakem.
17. The sons of Ulam: Bedan. These were the sons of Gilead the son of Machir, the son of Menashe.
18. His sister Hammolecheth bore Ishhod, and Abiezer, and Mahlah.
19. The sons of Shemida were Ahian, and Shekhem, and Likhi, and Aniam.
20. The sons of Efrayim: Shuthelah, and Bered his son, and Tahath his son, and Eleadah his son, and Tahath his son,
21. and Zabad his son, and Shuthelah his son, and Ezer, and Elead, whom the men of Gath who were born in the land killed, because they came down to take away their livestock.
22. Efrayim their father mourned many days, and his brothers came to comfort him.
23. He went in to his wife, and she conceived, and bore a son, and he named him Beriah, because it went brokenness with his house.
24. His daughter was Sheerah, who built Beth Horon the lower and the upper, and Uzzen Sheerah.
25. Rephah was his son, and Resheph, and Telah his son, and Tahan his son,
26. Ladan his son, Ammihud his son, Elishama his son,
27. Nun his son, Yehoshua his son.
28. Their possessions and habitations were Beit El and the towns of it, and eastward Naaran, and westward Gezer, with the towns of it; Shekhem also and the towns of it, to Azzah and the towns of it;
29. and by the borders of the children of Menashe, Beth Shean and its towns, Taanach and its towns, Megiddo and its towns, Dor and its towns. In these lived the children of Yosef the son of Israel.
30. The sons of Asher: Imnah, and Ishvah, and Ishvi, and Beriah, and Serah their sister.
31. The sons of Beriah: Heber, and Malchiel, who was the father of Birzaith.
32. Heber became the father of Japhlet, and Shomer, and Hotham, and Shua their sister.
33. The sons of Japhlet: Pasach, and Bimhal, and Ashvath. These are the children of Japhlet.
34. The sons of Shemer: Ahi, and Rohgah, Jehubbah, and Aram.
35. The sons of Helem his brother: Zophah, and Imna, and Shelesh, and Amal.
36. The sons of Zophah: Suah, and Harnepher, and Shual, and Beri, and Imrah,
37. Bezer, and Hod, and Shamma, and Shilshah, and Ithran, and Beera.
38. The sons of Jether: Jephunneh, and Pispa, and Ara.
39. The sons of Ulla: Arah, and Hanniel, and Rizia.
40. All these were the children of Asher, heads of the fathers' houses, choice and mighty men of valor, chief of the princes. The number of them reckoned by genealogy for service in war was twenty-six thousand men.

1 Chronicles 8
1. Binyamin became the father of Bela his firstborn, Ashbel the second, and Aharah the third,
2. Nohah the fourth, and Rapha the fifth.
3. Bela had sons: Addar, and Gera, and Abihud,
4. and Abishua, and Naaman, and Ahoah,
5. and Gera, and Shephuphan, and Huram.
6. These are the sons of Ehud: these are the heads of fathers' [houses] of the inhabitants of Geba, and they carried them captive to Manahath:
7. and Naaman, and Ahijah, and Gera, he carried them captive: and he became the father of Uzza and Ahihud.
8. Shaharaim became the father of children in the field of Moab, after he had sent them away; Hushim and Baara were his wives.
9. He became the father of Hodesh his wife, Jobab, and Zibia, and Mesha, and Malcam,
10. and Jeuz, and Shachia, and Mirmah. These were his sons, heads of fathers' [houses].
11. Of Hushim he became the father of Abitub and Elpaal.
12. The sons of Elpaal: Eber, and Misham, and Shemed, who built Ono and Lod, with the towns of it;
13. and Beriah, and Shema, who were heads of fathers' [houses] of the inhabitants of Aijalon, who put to flight the inhabitants of Gath;
14. and Ahio, Shashak, and Jeremoth,
15. and Zebadiah, and Arad, and Eder,
16. and Michael, and Ishpah, and Joha, the sons of Beriah,
17. and Zebadiah, and Meshullam, and Hizki, and Heber,
18. and Ishmerai, and Izliah, and Jobab, the sons of Elpaal,
19. and Jakim, and Zichri, and Zabdi,
20. and Elienai, and Zillethai, and Eliel,
21. and Adaiah, and Beraiah, and Shimrath, the sons of Shimei,
22. and Ishpan, and Eber, and Eliel,
23. and Abdon, and Zichri, and Hanan,
24. and Hananiah, and Elam, and Anthothijah,
25. and Iphdeiah, and Penuel, the sons of Shashak,
26. and Shamsherai, and Shehariah, and Athaliah,
27. and Jaareshiah, and Eliyahu, and Zichri, the sons of Jeroham.
28. These were heads of fathers' [houses] throughout their generations, chief men: these lived in Yerushalayim.
29. In Gibeon there lived the father of Gibeon, [Jeiel], whose wife's name was Maacah;
30. and his firstborn son Abdon, and Zur, and Kish, and Baal, and Nadab,
31. and Gedor, and Ahio, and Zecher.
32. Mikloth became the father of Shimeah. They also lived with their brothers in Yerushalayim, over against their brothers.
33. Ner became the father of Kish; and Kish became the father of Shaul; and Shaul became the father of Yonatan, and Malchishua, and Abinadab, and Eshbaal.
34. The son of Yonatan was Merib Baal; and Merib Baal became the father of Micah.
35. The sons of Micah: Pithon, and Melech, and Tarea, and Achaz.
36. Achaz became the father of Jehoaddah; and Jehoaddah became the father of Alemeth, and Azmaveth, and Zimri; and Zimri became the father of Moza.
37. Moza became the father of Binea; Raphah was his son, Eleasah his son, Azel his son.
38. Azel had six sons, whose names are these: Azrikam, Bocheru, and Ishmael, and Sheariah, and Obadiah, and Hanan. All these were the sons of Azel.
39. The sons of Eshek his brother: Ulam his firstborn, Jeush the second, and Eliphelet the third.
40. The sons of Ulam were mighty men of valor, archers, and had many sons, and sons' sons, one hundred fifty. All these were of the sons of Binyamin.

1 Chronicles 9
1. So all Israel were reckoned by genealogies; and behold, they are written in the book of the kings of Israel: and Yehudah was carried away captive to Bavel for their disobedience.
2. Now the first inhabitants who lived in their possessions in their cities were Israel, the priests, the Levites, and the Nethinim.
3. In Yerushalayim lived of the children of Yehudah, and of the children of Binyamin, and of the children of Efrayim and Menashe:
4. Uthai the son of Ammihud, the son of Omri, the son of Imri, the son of Bani, of the children of Perez the son of Yehudah.
5. Of the Shilonites: Asaiah the firstborn, and his sons.
6. Of the sons of Zerah: Jeuel, and their brothers, six hundred ninety.
7. Of the sons of Binyamin: Sallu the son of Meshullam, the son of Hodaviah, the son of Hassenuah,
8. and Ibneiah the son of Jeroham, and Elah the son of Uzzi, the son of Michri, and Meshullam the son of Shephatiah, the son of Reuel, the son of Ibnijah;
9. and their brothers, according to their generations, nine hundred fifty-six. All these men were heads of fathers' [houses] by their fathers' houses.
10. Of the priests: Jedaiah, and Jehoiarib, Jachin,
11. and Azaryah the son of Hilkiah, the son of Meshullam, the son of Tzadok, the son of Meraioth, the son of Ahitub, the ruler of the house of Elohim;
12. and Adaiah the son of Jeroham, the son of Pashhur, the son of Malchijah, and Maasai the son of Adiel, the son of Jahzerah, the son of Meshullam, the son of Meshillemith, the son of Immer;
13. and their brothers, heads of their fathers' houses, one thousand seven hundred sixty; very able men for the work of the service of the house of Elohim.
14. Of the Levites: Shemaiah the son of Hasshub, the son of Azrikam, the son of Hashabiah, of the sons of Merari;
15. and Bakbakkar, Heresh, and Galal, and Mattaniah the son of Mica, the son of Zichri, the son of Asaph,
16. and Obadiah the son of Shemaiah, the son of Galal, the son of Jeduthun, and Berechiah the son of Asa, the son of Elkanah, who lived in the villages of the Netophathites.
17. The porters: Shallum, and Akkub, and Talmon, and Ahiman, and their brothers (Shallum was the chief),
18. who hitherto [waited] in the king's gate eastward: they were the porters for the camp of the children of Levi.
19. Shallum the son of Kore, the son of Ebiasaph, the son of Korah, and his brothers, of his father's house, the Korahites, were over the work of the service, keepers of the thresholds of the tent: and their fathers had been over the camp of YHWH, keepers of the entry.
20. Phinehas the son of Eleazar was ruler over them in time past, [and] YHWH was with him.
21. Zekharyah the son of Meshelemiah was porter of the door of the tent of meeting.
22. All these who were chosen to be porters in the thresholds were two hundred and twelve. These were reckoned by genealogy in their villages, whom Dawid and Shmuel the seer did ordain in their office of trust.
23. So they and their children had the oversight of the gates of the house of YHWH, even the house of the tent, by wards.
24. On the four sides were the porters, toward the east, west, north, and south.
25. Their brothers, in their villages, were to come in every seven days from time to time to be with them:
26. for the four chief porters, who were Levites, were in an office of trust, and were over the chambers and over the treasuries in the house of Elohim.
27. They lodged round about the house of Elohim, because the charge [of it] was on them; and to them pertained the opening of it morning by morning.
28. Certain of them had charge of the vessels of service; for by count were these brought in and by count were these taken out.
29. Some of them also were appointed over the furniture, and over all the vessels of the sanctuary, and over the fine flour, and the wine, and the oil, and the frankincense, and the spices.
30. Some of the sons of the priests prepared the confection of the spices.
31. Mattithiah, one of the Levites, who was the firstborn of Shallum the Korahite, had the office of trust over the things that were baked in pans.
32. Some of their brothers, of the sons of the Kohathites, were over the show bread, to prepare it every Sabbath.
33. These are the singers, heads of fathers' [houses] of the Levites, [who lived] in the chambers [and were] free [from other service]; for they were employed in their work day and night.
34. These were heads of fathers' [houses] of the Levites, throughout their generations, chief men: these lived at Yerushalayim.
35. In Gibeon there lived the father of Gibeon, Jeiel, whose wife's name was Maacah:
36. and his firstborn son Abdon, and Zur, and Kish, and Baal, and Ner, and Nadab,
37. and Gedor, and Ahio, and Zekharyah, and Mikloth.
38. Mikloth became the father of Shimeam. They also lived with their brothers in Yerushalayim, over against their brothers.
39. Ner became the father of Kish; and Kish became the father of Shaul; and Shaul became the father of Yonatan, and Malchishua, and Abinadab, and Eshbaal.
40. The son of Yonatan was Merib Baal; and Merib Baal became the father of Micah.
41. The sons of Micah: Pithon, and Melech, and Tahrea, [and Achaz].
42. Achaz became the father of Jarah; and Jarah became the father of Alemeth, and Azmaveth, and Zimri; and Zimri became the father of Moza;
43. and Moza became the father of Binea; and Rephaiah his son, Eleasah his son, Azel his son.
44. Azel had six sons, whose names are these: Azrikam, Bocheru, and Ishmael, and Sheariah, and Obadiah, and Hanan: these were the sons of Azel.

1 Chronicles 10
1. Now the Philistines fought against Israel: and the people of Israel fled from before the Philistines, and fell down slain on Mount Gilboa.
2. The Philistines followed hard after Shaul and after his sons; and the Philistines killed Yonatan, and Abinadab, and Malchishua, the sons of Shaul.
3. The battle went sore against Shaul, and the archers overtook him; and he was distressed by reason of the archers.
4. Then said Shaul to his armor bearer, Draw your sword, and thrust me through therewith, lest these uncircumcised come and abuse me. But his armor bearer would not; for he was sore afraid. Therefore Shaul took his sword, and fell on it.
5. When his armor bearer saw that Shaul was dead, he likewise fell on his sword, and died.
6. So Shaul died, and his three sons; and all his house died together.
7. When all the people of Israel who were in the valley saw that they fled, and that Shaul and his sons were dead, they forsook their cities, and fled; and the Philistines came and lived in them.
8. It happened on the next day, when the Philistines came to strip the slain, that they found Shaul and his sons fallen on Mount Gilboa.
9. They stripped him, and took his head, and his armor, and sent into the land of the Philistines round about, to carry the news to their idols, and to the people.
10. They put his armor in the house of their gods, and fastened his head in the house of Dagon.
11. When all Jabesh Gilead heard all that the Philistines had done to Shaul,
12. all the valiant men arose, and took away the body of Shaul, and the bodies of his sons, and brought them to Jabesh, and buried their bones under the oak in Jabesh, and fasted seven days.
13. So Shaul died for his trespass which he committed against YHWH, because of the word of YHWH, which he didn't keep; and also because they asked counsel of one who had a familiar spirit, to inquire [thereby],
14. and didn't inquire of YHWH: therefore he killed him, and turned the kingdom to Dawid the son of Yishai.

1 Chronicles 11
1. Then all Israel gathered themselves to Dawid to Chevron, saying, Behold, we are your bone and your flesh.
2. In times past, even when Shaul was king, it was you who led out and brought in Israel: and YHWH your God said to you, You shall be shepherd of my people Israel, and you shall be prince over my people Israel.
3. So all the elders of Israel came to the king to Chevron; and Dawid made a covenant with them in Chevron before YHWH; and they anointed Dawid king over Israel, according to the word of YHWH by Shmuel.
4. Dawid and all Israel went to Yerushalayim (the same is Jebus); and the Jebusites, the inhabitants of the land, were there.
5. The inhabitants of Jebus said to Dawid, You shall not come in here. Nevertheless Dawid took the stronghold of Tzion; the same is the city of Dawid.
6. Dawid said, Whoever strikes the Jebusites first shall be chief and captain. Yoav the son of Zeruiah went up first, and was made chief.
7. Dawid lived in the stronghold; therefore they called it the city of Dawid.
8. He built the city round about, from Millo even round about; and Yoav repaired the rest of the city.
9. Dawid grew greater and greater; for YHWH of Armies was with him.
10. Now these are the chief of the mighty men whom Dawid had, who shown themselves strong with him in his kingdom, together with all Israel, to make him king, according to the word of YHWH concerning Israel.
11. This is the number of the mighty men whom Dawid had: Jashobeam, the son of a Hachmonite, the chief of the thirty; he lifted up his spear against three hundred and killed them at one time.
12. After him was Eleazar the son of Dodo, the Ahohite, who was one of the three mighty men.
13. He was with Dawid at Pasdammim, and there the Philistines were gathered together to battle, where was a plot of ground full of barley; and the people fled from before the Philistines.
14. They stood in the midst of the plot, and defended it, and killed the Philistines; and YHWH saved them by a great victory.
15. Three of the thirty chief men went down to the rock to Dawid, into the cave of Adullam; and the army of the Philistines were encamped in the valley of Rephaim.
16. Dawid was then in the stronghold, and the garrison of the Philistines was then in Beit Lechem.
17. Dawid longed, and said, Oh that one would give me water to drink of the well of Beit Lechem, which is by the gate!
18. The three broke through the army of the Philistines, and drew water out of the well of Beit Lechem, that was by the gate, and took it, and brought it to Dawid: but Dawid would not drink of it, but poured it out to YHWH,
19. and said, my God forbid it me, that I should do this: shall I drink the blood of these people who have put their lives in jeopardy? for with [the jeopardy of] their lives they brought it. Therefore he would not drink it. These things did the three mighty men.
20. Abishai, the brother of Yoav, he was chief of the three; for he lifted up his spear against three hundred and killed them, and had a name among the three.
21. Of the three, he was more honorable than the two, and was made their captain: however he didn't attain to the [first] three.
22. Benayahu the son of Yehoyada, the son of a valiant man of Kabzeel, who had done mighty deeds, he killed the two [sons of] Ariel of Moab: he went down also and killed a lion in the midst of a pit in time of snow.
23. They killed an Egyptian, a person of great stature, five cubits high; and in the Egyptian's hand was a spear like a weaver's beam; and he went down to him with a staff, and plucked the spear out of the Egyptian's hand, and killed him with his own spear.
24. These things did Benayahu the son of Yehoyada, and had a name among the three mighty men.
25. Behold, he was more honorable than the thirty, but he didn't attain to the [first] three: and Dawid set him over his guard.
26. Also the mighty men of the armies: Asahel the brother of Yoav, Elhanan the son of Dodo of Beit Lechem,
27. Shammoth the Harorite, Helez the Pelonite,
28. Ira the son of Ikkesh the Tekoite, Abiezer the Anathothite,
29. Sibbecai the Hushathite, Ilai the Ahohite,
30. Maharai the Netophathite, Heled the son of Baanah the Netophathite,
31. Ithai the son of Ribai of Gibeah of the children of Binyamin, Benayahu the Pirathonite,
32. Hurai of the brooks of Gaash, Abiel the Arbathite,
33. Azmaveth the Baharumite, Eliahba the Shaalbonite,
34. the sons of Hashem the Gizonite, Yonatan the son of Shagee the Hararite,
35. Ahiam the son of Sacar the Hararite, Eliphal the son of Ur,
36. Hepher the Mecherathite, Ahijah the Pelonite,
37. Hezro the Carmelite, Naarai the son of Ezbai,
38. Joel the brother of Natan, Mibhar the son of Hagri,
39. Zelek the Ammonite, Naharai the Berothite, the armor bearer of Yoav the son of Zeruiah,
40. Ira the Ithrite, Gareb the Ithrite,
41. Uriyah the Hittite, Zabad the son of Ahlai,
42. Adina the son of Shiza the Reubenite, a chief of the Reubenites, and thirty with him,
43. Hanan the son of Maacah, and Joshaphat the Mithnite,
44. Uzzia the Ashterathite, Shama and Jeiel the sons of Hotham the Aroerite,
45. Jediael the son of Shimri, and Joha his brother, the Tizite,
46. Eliel the Mahavite, and Jeribai, and Joshaviah, the sons of Elnaam, and Ithmah the Moabite,
47. Eliel, and Obed, and Jaasiel the Mezobaite.

1 Chronicles 12
1. Now these are those who came to Dawid to Ziklag, while he yet kept himself close because of Shaul the son of Kish; and they were among the mighty men, his helpers in war.
2. They were armed with bows, and could use both the right hand and the left in slinging stones and in shooting arrows from the bow: they were of Shaul's brothers of Binyamin.
3. The chief was Ahiezer; then Yoash, the sons of Shemaah the Gibeathite, and Jeziel, and Pelet, the sons of Azmaveth, and Beracah, and Yehu the Anathothite,
4. and Ishmaiah the Gibeonite, a mighty man among the thirty, and over the thirty, and Yirmeyahu, and Jahaziel, and Johanan, and Jozabad the Gederathite,
5. Eluzai, and Jerimoth, and Bealiah, and Shemariah, and Shephatiah the Haruphite,
6. Elkanah, and Isshiah, and Azarel, and Joezer, and Jashobeam, the Korahites,
7. and Joelah, and Zebadiah, the sons of Jeroham of Gedor.
8. Of the Gadites there separated themselves to Dawid to the stronghold in the wilderness, mighty men of valor, men trained for war, that could handle shield and spear; whose faces were like the faces of lions, and they were as swift as the roes on the mountains;
9. Ezer the chief, Obadiah the second, Eliab the third,
10. Mishmannah the fourth, Yirmeyahu the fifth,
11. Attai the sixth, Eliel the seventh,
12. Johanan the eighth, Elzabad the ninth,
13. Yirmeyahu the tenth, Machbannai the eleventh.
14. These of the sons of Gad were captains of the army: the one who was least was equal to one hundred, and the greatest to one thousand.
15. These are those who went over the Yarden in the first month, when it had overflowed all its banks; and they put to flight all them of the valleys, both toward the east, and toward the west.
16. There came of the children of Binyamin and Yehudah to the stronghold to Dawid.
17. Dawid went out to meet them, and answered them, If you be come peaceably to me to help me, my heart shall be knit to you; but if [you be come] to betray me to my adversaries, seeing there is no wrong in my hands, the God of our fathers look thereon, and rebuke it.
18. Then the Ruach came on Amasai, who was chief of the thirty, [and he said], "We are yours, Dawid, and on your side, you son of Yishai: peace, peace be to you, and peace be to your helpers; for your God helps you." Then Dawid received them, and made them captains of the band.
19. Of Menashe also there fell away some to Dawid, when he came with the Philistines against Shaul to battle: but they didn't help them; for the lords of the Philistines sent him away after consultation, saying, He will fall away to his master Shaul to the jeopardy of our heads.
20. As he went to Ziklag, there fell to him of Menashe, Adnah, and Jozabad, and Jediael, and Michael, and Jozabad, and Elihu, and Zillethai, captains of thousands who were of Menashe.
21. They helped Dawid against the band of rovers: for they were all mighty men of valor, and were captains in the army.
22. For from day to day men came to Dawid to help him, until there was a great army, like the army of Elohim.
23. These are the numbers of the heads of those who were armed for war, who came to Dawid to Chevron, to turn the kingdom of Shaul to him, according to the word of YHWH.
24. The children of Yehudah who bore shield and spear were six thousand and eight hundred, armed for war.
25. Of the children of Shim'on, mighty men of valor for the war, seven thousand and one hundred.
26. Of the children of Levi four thousand and six hundred.
27. Yehoyada was the leader of [the house of] Aharon; and with him were three thousand and seven hundred,
28. and Tzadok, a young person mighty of valor, and of his father's house twenty-two captains.
29. Of the children of Binyamin, the brothers of Shaul, three thousand: for hitherto the greatest part of them had kept their allegiance to the house of Shaul.
30. Of the children of Efrayim twenty thousand eight hundred, mighty men of valor, famous men in their fathers' houses.
31. Of the half-tribe of Menashe eighteen thousand, who were mentioned by name, to come and make Dawid king.
32. Of the children of Yissakhar, people who had understanding of the times, to know what Israel ought to do, the heads of them were two hundred; and all their brothers were at their commandment.
33. Of Zevulun, such as were able to go out in the army, who could set the battle in array, with all manner of instruments of war, fifty thousand, and who could order [the battle array, and were] not of double heart.
34. Of Naphtali one thousand captains, and with them with shield and spear thirty-seven thousand.
35. Of the Danites who could set the battle in array, twenty-eight thousand six hundred.
36. Of Asher, such as were able to go out in the army, who could set the battle in array, forty thousand.
37. On the other side of the Yarden, of the Reubenites, and the Gadites, and of the half-tribe of Menashe, with all manner of instruments of war for the battle, one hundred twenty thousand.
38. All these being men of war, who could order the battle array, came with a perfect heart to Chevron, to make Dawid king over all Israel: and all the rest also of Israel were of one heart to make Dawid king.
39. They were there with Dawid three days, eating and drinking; for their brothers had made preparation for them.
40. Moreover those who were near to them, [even] as far as Yissakhar and Zevulun and Naphtali, brought bread on donkeys, and on camels, and on mules, and on oxen, food of meal, cakes of figs, and clusters of raisins, and wine, and oil, and oxen, and sheep in abundance: for there was joy in Israel.

1 Chronicles 13
1. Dawid consulted with the captains of thousands and of hundreds, even with every leader.
2. Dawid said to all the assembly of Israel, If it seem good to you, and if it be of YHWH our God, let us send abroad everywhere to our brothers who are left in all the land of Israel, with whom the priests and Levites are in their cities that have suburbs, that they may gather themselves to us;
3. and let us bring again the ark of our God to us: for we didn't seek it in the days of Shaul.
4. All the assembly said that they would do so; for the thing was right in the eyes of all the people.
5. So Dawid assembled all Israel together, from the Shihor [the brook] of Mitzrayim even to the entrance of Hamath, to bring the ark of Elohim from Kiriath Jearim.
6. Dawid went up, and all Israel, to Baalah, [that is], to Kiriath Jearim, which belonged to Yehudah, to bring up from there the ark of Elohim YHWH that sits [above] the cherubim, that is called by the Name.
7. They carried the ark of Elohim on a new cart, [and brought it] out of the house of Abinadab: and Uzza and Ahio drove the cart.
8. Dawid and all Israel played before Elohim with all their might, even with songs, and with harps, and with stringed instruments, and with tambourines, and with cymbals, and with trumpets.
9. When they came to the threshing floor of Chidon, Uzza put forth his hand to hold the ark; for the oxen stumbled.
10. The anger of YHWH was kindled against Uzza, and he struck him, because he put forth his hand to the ark; and there he died before Elohim.
11. Dawid was displeased, because YHWH had broken forth on Uzza; and he called that place Perez Uzza, to this day.
12. Dawid was afraid of Elohim that day, saying, How shall I bring the ark of Elohim home to me?
13. So Dawid didn't move the ark to him into the city of Dawid, but carried it aside into the house of Obed-Edom the Gittite.
14. The ark of Elohim remained with the family of Obed-Edom in his house three months: and YHWH blessed the house of Obed-Edom, and all that he had.

1 Chronicles 14
1. Hiram king of Tzor sent messengers to Dawid, and cedar trees, and masons, and carpenters, to build him a house.
2. Dawid perceived that YHWH had established him king over Israel; for his kingdom was exalted on high, for his people Israel's sake.
3. Dawid took more wives at Yerushalayim; and Dawid became the father of more sons and daughters.
4. These are the names of the children whom he had in Yerushalayim: Shammua, and Shobab, Natan, and Shlomo,
5. and Ibhar, and Elishua, and Elpelet,
6. and Nogah, and Nepheg, and Japhia,
7. and Elishama, and Beeliada, and Eliphelet.
8. When the Philistines heard that Dawid was anointed king over all Israel, all the Philistines went up to seek Dawid: and Dawid heard of it, and went out against them.
9. Now the Philistines had come and made a raid in the valley of Rephaim.
10. Dawid inquired of Elohim, saying, Shall I go up against the Philistines? and will you deliver them into my hand? YHWH said to him, Go up; for I will deliver them into your hand.
11. So they came up to Baal Perazim, and Dawid struck them there; and Dawid said, Elohim has broken my enemies by my hand, like the breach of waters. Therefore they called the name of that place Baal Perazim.
12. They left their gods there; and Dawid gave commandment, and they were burned with fire.
13. The Philistines yet again made a raid in the valley.
14. Dawid inquired again of Elohim; and Elohim said to him, You shall not go up after them: turn away from them, and come on them over against the mulberry trees.
15. It shall be, when you hear the sound of marching in the tops of the mulberry trees, that then you shall go out to battle; for Elohim is gone out before you to strike the army of the Philistines.
16. Dawid did as Elohim commanded him: and they struck the army of the Philistines from Gibeon even to Gezer.
17. The fame of Dawid went out into all lands; and YHWH brought the fear of him on all nations.

1 Chronicles 15
1. [Dawid] made him houses in the city of Dawid; and he prepared a place for the ark of Elohim, and pitched for it a tent.
2. Then Dawid said, None ought to carry the ark of Elohim but the Levites: for them has YHWH chosen to carry the ark of Elohim, and to minister to him forever.
3. Dawid assembled all Israel at Yerushalayim, to bring up the ark of YHWH to its place, which he had prepared for it.
4. Dawid gathered together the sons of Aharon, and the Levites:
5. of the sons of Kohath, Uriel the chief, and his brothers one hundred twenty;
6. of the sons of Merari, Asaiah the chief, and his brothers two hundred twenty;
7. of the sons of Gershom, Joel the chief, and his brothers one hundred thirty;
8. of the sons of Elizaphan, Shemaiah the chief, and his brothers two hundred;
9. of the sons of Chevron, Eliel the chief, and his brothers eighty;
10. of the sons of Uzziel, Amminadab the chief, and his brothers one hundred twelve.
11. Dawid called for Tzadok and Abiathar the priests, and for the Levites, for Uriel, Asaiah, and Joel, Shemaiah, and Eliel, and Amminadab,
12. and said to them, You are the heads of the fathers' [houses] of the Levites: sanctify yourselves, both you and your brothers, that you may bring up the ark of YHWH, the God of Israel, to [the place] that I have prepared for it.
13. For because you didn't carry it at the first, YHWH our God made a breach on us, because we didn't seek him according to the ordinance.
14. So the priests and the Levites sanctified themselves to bring up the ark of YHWH, the God of Israel.
15. The children of the Levites bore the ark of Elohim on their shoulders with the poles thereon, as Moshe commanded according to the word of YHWH.
16. Dawid spoke to the chief of the Levites to appoint their brothers the singers, with instruments of music, stringed instruments and harps and cymbals, sounding aloud and lifting up the voice with joy.
17. So the Levites appointed Heman the son of Joel; and of his brothers, Asaph the son of Berechiah; and of the sons of Merari their brothers, Ethan the son of Kushaiah;
18. and with them their brothers of the second degree, Zekharyah, Ben, and Jaaziel, and Shemiramoth, and Jehiel, and Unni, Eliab, and Benayahu, and Maaseiah, and Mattithiah, and Eliphelehu, and Mikneiah, and Obed-Edom, and Jeiel, the doorkeepers.
19. So the singers, Heman, Asaph, and Ethan, [were appointed] with cymbals of brass to sound aloud;
20. and Zekharyah, and Aziel, and Shemiramoth, and Jehiel, and Unni, and Eliab, and Maaseiah, and Benayahu, with stringed instruments set to Alamoth;
21. and Mattithiah, and Eliphelehu, and Mikneiah, and Obed-Edom, and Jeiel, and Azaziah, with harps tuned to the eight-stringed lyre, to lead.
22. Chenaniah, chief of the Levites, was over the song: he instructed about the song, because he was skillful.
23. Berechiah and Elkanah were doorkeepers for the ark.
24. Shebaniah, and Joshaphat, and Nethanel, and Amasai, and Zekharyah, and Benayahu, and Eliezer, the priests, did blow the trumpets before the ark of Elohim: and Obed-Edom and Jehiah were doorkeepers for the ark.
25. So Dawid, and the elders of Israel, and the captains over thousands, went to bring up the ark of the covenant of YHWH out of the house of Obed-Edom with joy.
26. It happened, when Elohim helped the Levites who bore the ark of the covenant of YHWH, that they sacrificed seven bulls and seven rams.
27. Dawid was clothed with a robe of fine linen, and all the Levites who bore the ark, and the singers, and Chenaniah the master of the song [with] the singers: and Dawid had on him an ephod of linen.
28. Thus all Israel brought up the ark of the covenant of YHWH with shouting, and with sound of the cornet, and with trumpets, and with cymbals, sounding aloud with stringed instruments and harps.
29. It happened, as the ark of the covenant of YHWH came to the city of Dawid, that Michal the daughter of Shaul looked out at the window, and saw king Dawid dancing and playing; and she despised him in her heart.

1 Chronicles 16
1. They brought in the ark of Elohim, and set it in the midst of the tent that Dawid had pitched for it: and they offered burnt offerings and peace offerings before Elohim.
2. When Dawid had made an end of offering the burnt offering and the peace offerings, he blessed the people in the name of YHWH.
3. They dealt to everyone of Israel, both man and woman, to every one a loaf of bread, and a portion [of flesh], and a cake of raisins.
4. He appointed certain of the Levites to minister before the ark of YHWH, and to celebrate and to thank and praise YHWH, the God of Israel:
5. Asaph the chief, and second to him Zekharyah, Jeiel, and Shemiramoth, and Jehiel, and Mattithiah, and Eliab, and Benayahu, and Obed-Edom, and Jeiel, with stringed instruments and with harps; and Asaph with cymbals, sounding aloud;
6. and Benayahu and Jahaziel the priests with trumpets continually, before the ark of the covenant of Elohim.
7. Then on that day Dawid first ordained to give thanks to YHWH, by the hand of Asaph and his brothers.
8. Oh give thanks to YHWH. Call on YHWH’s name. Make his doings known among the peoples.
9. Sing to him. Sing praises to him. Tell of all his marvelous works.
10. Glory in YHWH’s holy name. Let the heart of those who seek YHWH rejoice.
11. Seek YHWH and YHWH’s strength. Seek YHWH’s face forever more.
12. Remember his marvelous works that he has done, his wonders, and the judgments of his mouth,
13. you seed of Israel his servant, you children of Ya'akov, his chosen ones.
14. He is YHWH our God. His judgments are in all the earth.
15. Remember his covenant forever, the word which he commanded to a thousand generations,
16. [the covenant] which he made with Avraham, his oath to Yitzhak.
17. He confirmed the same to Ya'akov for a statute, and to Israel for an everlasting covenant,
18. saying, I will you give the land of Canaan, The lot of your inheritance,
19. when you were but a few men in number, yes, very few, and foreigners were in it.
20. They went about from nation to nation, from one kingdom to another people.
21. They allowed no one to do them wrong. Yes, he reproved kings for their sakes,
22. [saying], Don't touch my anointed ones! Do my prophets no harm.
23. Sing to YHWH, all the earth! Display YHWH’s salvation from day to day.
24. Declare his glory among the nations, and his marvelous works among all the peoples.
25. For great is YHWH, and greatly to be praised. The YHWH also is to be revered above all gods.
26. For all the gods of the peoples are idols, but YHWH made the heavens.
27. Honor and majesty are before him. Strength and gladness are in his place.
28. Ascribe to YHWH, you relatives of the peoples, ascribe to YHWH glory and strength!
29. Ascribe to YHWH the glory due to YHWH’s name. Bring an offering, and come before YHWH. Worship YHWH in holy array.
30. Tremble before him, all the earth. The world also is established that it can't be moved.
31. Let the heavens be glad, and let the earth rejoice! Let them say among the nations, YHWH reigns.
32. Let the sea roar, and its fullness! Let the field exult, and all that is therein!
33. Then the trees of the forest will sing for joy before YHWH, for YHWH comes to judge the earth.
34. Oh give thanks to YHWH, for YHWH is good, for YHWH’s loving kindness endures forever.
35. Say, Save us, God of our salvation! Gather us together and deliver us from the nations, to give thanks to your holy name, to triumph in your praise.
36. Blessed be YHWH, the God of Israel, from everlasting even to everlasting. All the people said, Amen, and praised YHWH.
37. So he left there, before the ark of the covenant of YHWH, Asaph and his brothers, to minister before the ark continually, as every day's work required;
38. and Obed-Edom with their brothers, sixty-eight; Obed-Edom also the son of Jeduthun and Hosah to be doorkeepers;
39. and Tzadok the priest, and his brothers the priests, before the tent of YHWH in the high place that was at Gibeon,
40. to offer burnt offerings to YHWH on the altar of burnt offering continually morning and evening, even according to all that is written in the law of YHWH, which he commanded to Israel;
41. and with them Heman and Jeduthun, and the rest who were chosen, who were mentioned by name, to give thanks to YHWH, because his loving kindness endures forever;
42. and with them Heman and Jeduthun [with] trumpets and cymbals for those that should sound aloud, and [with] instruments for the songs of Elohim; and the sons of Jeduthun to be at the gate.
43. All the people departed everyone to their house: and Dawid returned to bless their house.

1 Chronicles 17
1. It happened, when Dawid lived in his house, that Dawid said to Natan the prophet, Behold, I dwell in a house of cedar, but the ark of the covenant of YHWH [dwells] under curtains.
2. Natan said to Dawid, Do all that is in your heart; for Elohim is with you.
3. It happened the same night, that the word of Elohim came to Natan, saying,
4. Go and tell Dawid my servant, Thus says YHWH, You shall not build me a house to dwell in:
5. for I have not lived in a house since the day that I brought up Israel, to this day, but have gone from tent to tent, and from [one] tent [to another].
6. In all places in which I have walked with all Israel, spoke I a word with any of the judges of Israel, whom I commanded to be shepherd of my people, saying, Why have you not built me a house of cedar?
7. Now therefore thus shall you tell my servant Dawid, Thus says YHWH of Armies, I took you from the sheep pen, from following the sheep, that you should be prince over my people Israel:
8. and I have been with you wherever you have gone, and have cut off all your enemies from before you; and I will make you a name, like the name of the great ones who are in the earth.
9. I will appoint a place for my people Israel, and will plant them, that they may dwell in their own place, and be moved no more; neither shall the children of wickedness waste them any more, as at the first,
10. and [as] from the day that I commanded judges to be over my people Israel; and I will subdue all your enemies. Moreover I tell you that YHWH will build you a house.
11. It shall happen, when your days are fulfilled that you must go to be with your fathers, that I will set up your seed after you, who shall be of your sons; and I will establish his kingdom.
12. He shall build me a house, and I will establish his throne forever.
13. I will be his father, and he shall be my son: and I will not take my loving kindness away from him, as I took it from him that was before you;
14. but I will settle him in my house and in my kingdom forever; and his throne shall be established forever.
15. According to all these words, and according to all this vision, so did Natan speak to Dawid.
16. Then Dawid the king went in, and sat before YHWH; and he said, Who am I, YHWH Elohim, and what is my house, that you have brought me thus far?
17. This was a small thing in your eyes, Elohim; but you have spoken of your servant's house for a great while to come, and have regarded me according to the estate of a person of high degree, YHWH Elohim.
18. What can Dawid [say] yet more to you concerning the honor which is done to your servant? for you know your servant.
19. YHWH, for your servant's sake, and according to your own heart, have you worked all this greatness, to make known all [these] great things.
20. YHWH, there is none like you, neither is there any Elohim besides you, according to all that we have heard with our ears.
21. What one nation in the earth is like your people Israel, whom Elohim went to redeem to himself for a people, to make you a name by great and awesome things, in driving out nations from before your people, whom you redeem out of Mitzrayim?
22. For your people Israel did you make your own people forever; and you, YHWH, became their God.
23. Now, YHWH, let the word that you have spoken concerning your servant, and concerning his house, be established forever, and do as you have spoken.
24. Let your name be established and magnified forever, saying, YHWH of Armies is the God of Israel, even an Elohim to Israel: and the house of Dawid your servant is established before you.
25. For you, my God, have revealed to your servant that you will build him a house: therefore has your servant found [in his heart] to pray before you.
26. Now, YHWH, you are Elohim, and have promised this good thing to your servant:
27. and now it has pleased you to bless the house of your servant, that it may continue forever before you: for you, YHWH, have blessed, and it is blessed forever.

1 Chronicles 18
1. After this it happened, that Dawid struck the Philistines, and subdued them, and took Gath and its towns out of the hand of the Philistines.
2. He struck Moab; and the Moabites became servants to Dawid, and brought tribute.
3. Dawid struck Hadarezer king of Zobah to Hamath, as he went to establish his dominion by the river Perat.
4. Dawid took from him one thousand chariots, and seven thousand horsemen, and twenty thousand footmen; and Dawid hamstrung all the chariot horses, but reserved of them for one hundred chariots.
5. When the Syrians of Dammeseq came to help Hadarezer king of Zobah, Dawid struck of the Syrians twenty-two thousand men.
6. Then Dawid put [garrisons] in Aram of Dammeseq; and the Syrians became servants to Dawid, and brought tribute. YHWH gave victory to Dawid wherever he went.
7. Dawid took the shields of gold that were on the servants of Hadarezer, and brought them to Yerushalayim.
8. From Tibhath and from Cun, cities of Hadarezer, Dawid took very much brass, with which Shlomo made the bronze sea, and the pillars, and the vessels of brass.
9. When Tou king of Hamath heard that Dawid had struck all the army of Hadarezer king of Zobah,
10. he sent Hadoram his son to king Dawid, to Greet him, and to bless him, because he had fought against Hadarezer and struck him; (for Hadarezer had wars with Tou;) and [he had with him] all manner of vessels of gold and silver and brass.
11. These also did king Dawid dedicate to YHWH, with the silver and the gold that he carried away from all the nations; from Edom, and from Moab, and from the children of Ammon, and from the Philistines, and from Amalek.
12. Moreover Abishai the son of Zeruiah struck of the Edomites in the Valley of Salt eighteen thousand.
13. He put garrisons in Edom; and all the Edomites became servants to Dawid. YHWH gave victory to Dawid wherever he went.
14. Dawid reigned over all Israel; and he executed justice and righteousness to all his people.
15. Yoav the son of Zeruiah was over the army; and Yehoshafat the son of Ahilud was recorder;
16. and Tzadok the son of Ahitub, and Abimelech the son of Abiathar, were priests; and Shavsha was scribe;
17. and Benayahu the son of Yehoyada was over the Cherethites and the Pelethites; and the sons of Dawid were chief about the king.

1 Chronicles 19
1. It happened after this, that Nahash the king of the children of Ammon died, and his son reigned in his place.
2. Dawid said, I will show kindness to Hanun the son of Nahash, because his father shown kindness to me. So Dawid sent messengers to comfort him concerning his father. Dawid's servants came into the land of the children of Ammon to Hanun, to comfort him.
3. But the princes of the children of Ammon said to Hanun, Think you that Dawid does honor your father, in that he has sent comforters to you? Aren't his servants come to you to search, and to overthrow, and to spy out the land?
4. So Hanun took Dawid's servants, and shaved them, and cut off their garments in the middle, even to their buttocks, and sent them away.
5. Then there went certain persons, and told Dawid how the men were served. He sent to meet them; for the men were greatly ashamed. The king said, Stay at Yericho until your beards be grown, and then return.
6. When the children of Ammon saw that they had made themselves odious to Dawid, Hanun and the children of Ammon sent one thousand talents of silver to hire them chariots and horsemen out of Mesopotamia, and out of Arammaacah, and out of Zobah.
7. So they hired them thirty-two thousand chariots, and the king of Maacah and his people, who came and encamped before Medeba. The children of Ammon gathered themselves together from their cities, and came to battle.
8. When Dawid heard of it, he sent Yoav, and all the army of the mighty men.
9. The children of Ammon came out, and put the battle in array at the gate of the city: and the kings who had come were by themselves in the field.
10. Now when Yoav saw that the battle was set against him before and behind, he chose of all the choice people of Israel, and put them in array against the Syrians.
11. The rest of the people he committed into the hand of Abishai his brother; and they put themselves in array against the children of Ammon.
12. He said, If the Syrians be too strong for me, then you shall help me; but if the children of Ammon be too strong for you, then I will help you.
13. Be of good courage, and let us play the person for our people, and for the cities of our God: and YHWH do that which seems him good.
14. So Yoav and the people who were with him drew near before the Syrians to the battle; and they fled before him.
15. When the children of Ammon saw that the Syrians were fled, they likewise fled before Abishai his brother, and entered into the city. Then Yoav came to Yerushalayim.
16. When the Syrians saw that they were put to the worse before Israel, they sent messengers, and drew forth the Syrians who were beyond the River, with Shophach the captain of the army of Hadarezer at their head.
17. It was told Dawid; and he gathered all Israel together, and passed over the Yarden, and came on them, and set the battle in array against them. So when Dawid had put the battle in array against the Syrians, they fought with him.
18. The Syrians fled before Israel; and Dawid killed of the Syrians [the men of] seven thousand chariots, and forty thousand footmen, and killed Shophach the captain of the army.
19. When the servants of Hadarezer saw that they were put to the worse before Israel, they made peace with Dawid, and served him: neither would the Syrians help the children of Ammon any more.

1 Chronicles 20
1. It happened, at the time of the return of the year, at the time when kings go out [to battle], that Yoav led forth the army, and wasted the country of the children of Ammon, and came and besieged Rabbah. But Dawid stayed at Yerushalayim. Yoav struck Rabbah, and overthrew it.
2. Dawid took the crown of their king from off his head, and found it to weigh a talent of gold, and there were precious stones in it; and it was set on Dawid's head: and he brought forth the spoil of the city, exceeding much.
3. He brought forth the people who were therein, and cut [them] with saws, and with harrows of iron, and with axes. Thus did Dawid to all the cities of the children of Ammon. Dawid and all the people returned to Yerushalayim.
4. It happened after this, that there arose war at Gezer with the Philistines: then Sibbecai the Hushathite killed Sippai, of the sons of the giant; and they were subdued.
5. There was again war with the Philistines; and Elhanan the son of Jair killed Lahmi the brother of Goliath the Gittite, the staff of whose spear was like a weaver's beam.
6. There was again war at Gath, where was a person of great stature, whose fingers and toes were twenty-four, six [on each hand], and six [on each foot]; and he also was born to the giant.
7. When he defied Israel, Yonatan the son of Shimea Dawid's brother killed him.
8. These were born to the giant in Gath; and they fell by the hand of Dawid, and by the hand of his servants.

1 Chronicles 21
1. the Adversary stood up against Israel, and moved Dawid to number Israel.
2. Dawid said to Yoav and to the princes of the people, Go, number Israel from Be'er Sheva even to Dan; and bring me word, that I may know the sum of them.
3. Yoav said, YHWH make his people a hundred times as many as they are: but, my lord the king, aren't they all my lord's servants? Why does my lord require this thing? Why will he be a cause of guilt to Israel?
4. Nevertheless the king's word prevailed against Yoav. Therefore Yoav departed, and went throughout all Israel, and came to Yerushalayim.
5. Yoav gave up the sum of the numbering of the people to Dawid. All those of Israel were one million one hundred thousand people who drew sword: and in Yehudah were four hundred seventy thousand people who drew sword.
6. But he didn't count Levi and Binyamin among them; for the king's word was abominable to Yoav.
7. Elohim was displeased with this thing; therefore he struck Israel.
8. Dawid said to Elohim, I have sinned greatly, in that I have done this thing: but now, put away, I beg you, the iniquity of your servant; for I have done very foolishly.
9. YHWH spoke to Gad, Dawid's seer, saying,
10. Go and speak to Dawid, saying, Thus says YHWH, I offer you three things: choose you one of them, that I may do it to you.
11. So Gad came to Dawid, and said to him, Thus says YHWH, Take which you will:
12. either three years of famine; or three months to be consumed before your foes, while the sword of your enemies overtakes you; or else three days the sword of YHWH, even pestilence in the land, and the angel of YHWH destroying throughout all the borders of Israel. Now therefore consider what answer I shall return to the one who sent me.
13. Dawid said to Gad, I am in a great strait: let me fall, I pray, into the hand of YHWH; for very great are his mercies: and let me not fall into the human hand.
14. So YHWH sent a pestilence on Israel; and there fell of Israel seventy thousand men.
15. Elohim sent an angel to Yerushalayim to destroy it: and as he was about to destroy, YHWH saw, and he relented from the harm, and said to the destroying angel, It is enough; now stay your hand. The angel of YHWH was standing by the threshing floor of Ornan the Jebusite.
16. Dawid lifted up his eyes, and saw the angel of YHWH standing between earth and the heavens, having a drawn sword in his hand stretched out over Yerushalayim. Then Dawid and the elders, clothed in sackcloth, fell on their faces.
17. Dawid said to Elohim, Isn't it I who commanded the people to be numbered? It is even I who have sinned and done very wickedly; but these sheep, what have they done? Please let your hand, O YHWH my God, be against me, and against my father's house; but not against your people, that they should be plagued.
18. Then the angel of YHWH commanded Gad to tell Dawid, that Dawid should go up, and raise an altar to YHWH in the threshing floor of Ornan the Jebusite.
19. Dawid went up at the saying of Gad, which he spoke in the name of YHWH.
20. Ornan turned back, and saw the angel; and his four sons who were with him hid themselves. Now Ornan was threshing wheat.
21. As Dawid came to Ornan, Ornan looked and saw Dawid, and went out of the threshing floor, and bowed himself to Dawid with his face to the ground.
22. Then Dawid said to Ornan, Give me the place of this threshing floor, that I may build thereon an altar to YHWH: for the full price shall you give it me, that the plague may be stayed from the people.
23. Ornan said to Dawid, Take it to you, and let my lord the king do that which is good in his eyes: behold, I give [you] the oxen for burnt offerings, and the threshing instruments for wood, and the wheat for the meal offering; I give it all.
24. King Dawid said to Ornan, No; but I will most certainly buy it for the full price: for I will not take that which is yours for YHWH, nor offer a burnt offering without cost.
25. So Dawid gave to Ornan for the place six hundred shekels of gold by weight.
26. Dawid built there an altar to YHWH, and offered burnt offerings and peace offerings, and called on YHWH; and he answered him from the heavens by fire on the altar of burnt offering.
27. YHWH commanded the angel; and he put up his sword again into the sheath of it.
28. At that time, when Dawid saw that YHWH had answered him in the threshing floor of Ornan the Jebusite, then he sacrificed there.
29. For the tent of YHWH, which Moshe made in the wilderness, and the altar of burnt offering, were at that time in the high place at Gibeon.
30. But Dawid couldn't go before it to inquire of Elohim; for he was afraid because of the sword of the angel of YHWH.

1 Chronicles 22
1. Then Dawid said, This is the house of YHWH Elohim, and this is the altar of burnt offering for Israel.
2. Dawid commanded to gather together the foreigners who were in the land of Israel; and he set masons to hew worked stones to build the house of Elohim.
3. Dawid prepared iron in abundance for the nails for the doors of the gates, and for the couplings; and brass in abundance without weight;
4. and cedar trees without number: for the Sidonians and they of Tzor brought cedar trees in abundance to Dawid.
5. Dawid said, Shlomo my son is young and tender, and the house that is to be built for YHWH must be exceedingly magnificent, of fame and of glory throughout all countries: I will therefore make preparation for it. So Dawid prepared abundantly before his death.
6. Then he called for Shlomo his son, and charged him to build a house for YHWH, the God of Israel.
7. Dawid said to Shlomo his son, As for me, it was in my heart to build a house to the name of YHWH my God.
8. But the word of YHWH came to me, saying, You have shed blood abundantly, and have made great wars: you shall not build a house to my name, because you have shed much blood on the earth in my sight.
9. Behold, a son shall be born to you, who shall be a person of rest; and I will give him rest from all his enemies round about; for his name shall be Shlomo, and I will give peace and quietness to Israel in his days:
10. he shall build a house for my name; and he shall be my son, and I will be his father; and I will establish the throne of his kingdom over Israel for ever.
11. Now, my son, YHWH be with you; and prosper you, and build the house of YHWH your God, as he has spoken concerning you.
12. May YHWH give you discretion and understanding, and put you in charge of Israel; that so you may keep the law of YHWH your God.
13. Then shall you prosper, if you observe to do the statutes and the ordinances which YHWH gave Moshe concerning Israel. Be strong, and of good courage. Don't be afraid, neither be dismayed.
14. Now, behold, in my affliction I have prepared for the house of YHWH one hundred thousand talents of gold, and one thousand thousand talents of silver, and of brass and iron without weight; for it is in abundance: timber also and stone have I prepared; and you may add to them.
15. There are also workmen with you in abundance, cutters and workers of stone and timber, and all kinds of people who are skillful in every kind of work:
16. of the gold, the silver, and the brass, and the iron, there is no number. Arise and be doing, and YHWH be with you.
17. Dawid also commanded all the princes of Israel to help Shlomo his son, [saying],
18. Isn't YHWH your God with you? Hasn't he given you rest on every side? for he has delivered the inhabitants of the land into my hand; and the land is subdued before YHWH, and before his people.
19. Now set your heart and your soul to seek after YHWH your God; arise therefore, and build the sanctuary of YHWH Elohim, to bring the ark of the covenant of YHWH, and the holy vessels of Elohim, into the house that is to be built to the name of YHWH.

1 Chronicles 23
1. Now Dawid was old and full of days; and he made Shlomo his son king over Israel.
2. He gathered together all the princes of Israel, with the priests and the Levites.
3. The Levites were numbered from thirty years old and upward: and their number by their polls, man by man, was thirty-eight thousand.
4. Of these, twenty-four thousand were to oversee the work of the house of YHWH; and six thousand were officers and judges;
5. and four thousand were doorkeepers; and four thousand praised YHWH with the instruments which I made, [said Dawid], for giving praise.
6. Dawid divided them into divisions according to the sons of Levi: Gershon, Kohath, and Merari.
7. Of the Gershonites: Ladan and Shimei.
8. The sons of Ladan: Jehiel the chief, and Zetham, and Joel, three.
9. The sons of Shimei: Shelomoth, and Haziel, and Haran, three. These were the heads of the fathers' [houses] of Ladan.
10. The sons of Shimei: Jahath, Zina, and Jeush, and Beriah. These four were the sons of Shimei.
11. Jahath was the chief, and Zizah the second: but Jeush and Beriah didn't have many sons; therefore they became a fathers' house in one reckoning.
12. The sons of Kohath: Amram, Izhar, Chevron, and Uzziel, four.
13. The sons of Amram: Aharon and Moshe; and Aharon was separated, that he should sanctify the most holy things, he and his sons, forever, to burn incense before YHWH, to minister to him, and to bless in his name, forever.
14. But as for Moshe the person of Elohim, their sons were named among the tribe of Levi.
15. The sons of Moshe: Gershom and Eliezer.
16. The sons of Gershom: Shebuel the chief.
17. The sons of Eliezer were: Rehabiah the chief; and Eliezer had no other sons; but the sons of Rehabiah were very many.
18. The sons of Izhar: Shelomith the chief.
19. The sons of Chevron: Jeriah the chief, Amariah the second, Jahaziel the third, and Jekameam the fourth.
20. The sons of Uzziel: Micah the chief, and Isshiah the second.
21. The sons of Merari: Mahli and Mushi. The sons of Mahli: Eleazar and Kish.
22. Eleazar died, and had no sons, but daughters only: and their brothers the sons of Kish took them [to wife].
23. The sons of Mushi: Mahli, and Eder, and Jeremoth, three.
24. These were the sons of Levi after their fathers' houses, even the heads of the fathers' houses of those who were counted individually, in the number of names by their polls, who did the work for the service of the house of YHWH, from twenty years old and upward.
25. For Dawid said, YHWH, the God of Israel, has given rest to his people; and he dwells in Yerushalayim forever:
26. and also the Levites shall no more have need to carry the tent and all the vessels of it for the service of it.
27. For by the last words of Dawid the sons of Levi were numbered, from twenty years old and upward.
28. For their office was to wait on the sons of Aharon for the service of the house of YHWH, in the courts, and in the chambers, and in the purifying of all holy things, even the work of the service of the house of Elohim;
29. for the show bread also, and for the fine flour for a meal offering, whether of unleavened wafers, or of that which is baked in the pan, or of that which is soaked, and for all manner of measure and size;
30. and to stand every morning to thank and praise YHWH, and likewise in the evening;
31. and to offer all burnt offerings to YHWH, on the Sabbaths, on the new moons, and on the set feasts, in number according to the ordinance concerning them, continually before YHWH;
32. and that they should keep the charge of the tent of meeting, and the charge of the holy place, and the charge of the sons of Aharon their brothers, for the service of the house of YHWH.

1 Chronicles 24
1. These were the divisions of the sons of Aharon. The sons of Aharon: Nadab and Abihu, Eleazar and Ithamar.
2. But Nadab and Abihu died before their father, and had no children: therefore Eleazar and Ithamar executed the priest's office.
3. Dawid with Tzadok of the sons of Eleazar, and Ahimelech of the sons of Ithamar, divided them according to their ordering in their service.
4. There were more chief men found of the sons of Eleazar than of the sons of Ithamar; and [thus] were they divided: of the sons of Eleazar there were sixteen, heads of fathers' houses; and of the sons of Ithamar, according to their fathers' houses, eight.
5. Thus were they divided impartially by drawing lots; for there were princes of the sanctuary, and princes of Elohim, both of the sons of Eleazar, and of the sons of Ithamar.
6. Shemaiah the son of Nethanel the scribe, who was of the Levites, wrote them in the presence of the king, and the princes, and Tzadok the priest, and Ahimelech the son of Abiathar, and the heads of the fathers' [houses] of the priests and of the Levites; one fathers' house being taken for Eleazar, and one taken for Ithamar.
7. Now the first lot came forth to Jehoiarib, the second to Jedaiah,
8. the third to Harim, the fourth to Seorim,
9. the fifth to Malchijah, the sixth to Mijamin,
10. the seventh to Hakkoz, the eighth to Abijah,
11. the ninth to Jeshua, the tenth to Shecaniah,
12. the eleventh to Eliashib, the twelfth to Jakim,
13. the thirteenth to Huppah, the fourteenth to Jeshebeab,
14. the fifteenth to Bilgah, the sixteenth to Immer,
15. the seventeenth to Hezir, the eighteenth to Happizzez,
16. the nineteenth to Pethahiah, the twentieth to Jehezkel,
17. the twenty-first to Jachin, the twenty-second to Gamul,
18. the twenty-third to Delaiah, the twenty-fourth to Maaziah.
19. This was the ordering of them in their service, to come into the house of YHWH according to the ordinance [given] to them by Aharon their father, as YHWH, the God of Israel, had commanded him.
20. Of the rest of the sons of Levi: of the sons of Amram, Shubael; of the sons of Shubael, Jehdeiah.
21. Of Rehabiah: of the sons of Rehabiah, Isshiah the chief.
22. Of the Izharites, Shelomoth; of the sons of Shelomoth, Jahath.
23. The sons [of Chevron]: Jeriah [the chief], Amariah the second, Jahaziel the third, Jekameam the fourth.
24. The sons of Uzziel, Micah; of the sons of Micah, Shamir.
25. The brother of Micah, Isshiah; of the sons of Isshiah, Zekharyah.
26. The sons of Merari: Mahli and Mushi; the sons of Jaaziah: Beno.
27. The sons of Merari: of Jaaziah, Beno, and Shoham, and Zaccur, and Ibri.
28. Of Mahli: Eleazar, who had no sons.
29. Of Kish; the sons of Kish: Jerahmeel.
30. The sons of Mushi: Mahli, and Eder, and Jerimoth. These were the sons of the Levites after their fathers' houses.
31. These likewise cast lots even as their brothers the sons of Aharon in the presence of Dawid the king, and Tzadok, and Ahimelech, and the heads of the fathers' [houses] of the priests and of the Levites; the fathers' [houses] of the chief even as those of his younger brother.

1 Chronicles 25
1. Moreover, Dawid and the captains of the army set apart for the service certain of the sons of Asaph, and of Heman, and of Jeduthun, who should prophesy with harps, with stringed instruments, and with cymbals: and the number of those who did the work according to their service was:
2. of the sons of Asaph: Zaccur, and Yosef, and Nethaniah, and Asharelah, the sons of Asaph, under the hand of Asaph, who prophesied after the order of the king.
3. Of Jeduthun; the sons of Jeduthun: Gedaliah, and Zeri, and Jeshaiah, Hashabiah, and Mattithiah, six, under the hands of their father Jeduthun with the harp, who prophesied in giving thanks and praising YHWH.
4. Of Heman; the sons of Heman: Bukkiah, Mattaniah, Uzziel, Shebuel, and Jerimoth, Hananiah, Hanani, Eliathah, Giddalti, and Romamti-Ezer, Joshbekashah, Mallothi, Hothir, Mahazioth.
5. All these were the sons of Heman the king's seer in the words of Elohim, to lift up the horn. Elohim gave to Heman fourteen sons and three daughters.
6. All these were under the hands of their father for song in the house of YHWH, with cymbals, stringed instruments, and harps, for the service of the house of Elohim; Asaph, Jeduthun, and Heman being under the order of the king.
7. The number of them, with their brothers who were instructed in singing to YHWH, even all who were skillful, was two hundred eighty-eight.
8. They cast lots for their offices, all alike, as well the small as the great, the teacher as the scholar.
9. Now the first lot came forth for Asaph to Yosef: the second to Gedaliah; he and his brothers and sons were twelve:
10. the third to Zaccur, his sons and his brothers, twelve:
11. the fourth to Izri, his sons and his brothers, twelve:
12. the fifth to Nethaniah, his sons and his brothers, twelve:
13. the sixth to Bukkiah, his sons and his brothers, twelve:
14. the seventh to Jesharelah, his sons and his brothers, twelve:
15. the eighth to Jeshaiah, his sons and his brothers, twelve:
16. the ninth to Mattaniah, his sons and his brothers, twelve:
17. the tenth to Shimei, his sons and his brothers, twelve:
18. the eleventh to Azarel, his sons and his brothers, twelve:
19. the twelfth to Hashabiah, his sons and his brothers, twelve:
20. for the thirteenth, Shubael, his sons and his brothers, twelve:
21. for the fourteenth, Mattithiah, his sons and his brothers, twelve:
22. for the fifteenth to Jeremoth, his sons and his brothers, twelve:
23. for the sixteenth to Hananiah, his sons and his brothers, twelve:
24. for the seventeenth to Joshbekashah, his sons and his brothers, twelve:
25. for the eighteenth to Hanani, his sons and his brothers, twelve:
26. for the nineteenth to Mallothi, his sons and his brothers, twelve:
27. for the twentieth to Eliathah, his sons and his brothers, twelve:
28. for the one and twentieth to Hothir, his sons and his brothers, twelve:
29. for the two and twentieth to Giddalti, his sons and his brothers, twelve:
30. for the three and twentieth to Mahazioth, his sons and his brothers, twelve:
31. for the four and twentieth to Romamtiezer, his sons and his brothers, twelve.

1 Chronicles 26
1. For the divisions of the doorkeepers: of the Korahites, Meshelemiah the son of Kore, of the sons of Asaph.
2. Meshelemiah had sons: Zekharyah the firstborn, Jediael the second, Zebadiah the third, Jathniel the fourth,
3. Elam the fifth, Jehohanan the sixth, Eliehoenai the seventh.
4. Obed-Edom had sons: Shemaiah the firstborn, Jehozabad the second, Joah the third, and Sacar the fourth, and Nethanel the fifth,
5. Ammiel the sixth, Yissakhar the seventh, Peullethai the eighth; for Elohim blessed him.
6. Also to Shemaiah his son were sons born, who ruled over the house of their father; for they were mighty men of valor.
7. The sons of Shemaiah: Othni, and Rephael, and Obed, Elzabad, whose brothers were valiant men, Elihu, and Semachiah.
8. All these were of the sons of Obed-Edom: they and their sons and their brothers, able men in strength for the service; sixty-two of Obed-Edom.
9. Meshelemiah had sons and brothers, valiant men, eighteen.
10. Also Hosah, of the children of Merari, had sons: Shimri the chief, (for though he was not the firstborn, yet his father made him chief),
11. Hilkiah the second, Tebaliah the third, Zekharyah the fourth: all the sons and brothers of Hosah were thirteen.
12. Of these were the divisions of the doorkeepers, even of the chief men, having offices like their brothers, to minister in the house of YHWH.
13. They cast lots, the small as well as the great, according to their fathers' houses, for every gate.
14. The lot eastward fell to Shelemiah. Then for Zekharyah his son, a wise counselor, they cast lots; and his lot came out northward.
15. To Obed-Edom southward; and to his sons the storehouse.
16. To Shuppim and Hosah westward, by the gate of Shallecheth, at the causeway that goes up, watch against watch.
17. Eastward were six Levites, northward four a day, southward four a day, and for the storehouse two and two.
18. For Parbar westward, four at the causeway, and two at Parbar.
19. These were the divisions of the doorkeepers; of the sons of the Korahites, and of the sons of Merari.
20. Of the Levites, Ahijah was over the treasures of the house of Elohim, and over the treasures of the dedicated things.
21. The sons of Ladan, the sons of the Gershonites belonging to Ladan, the heads of the fathers' [houses] belonging to Ladan the Gershonite: Jehieli.
22. The sons of Jehieli: Zetham, and Joel his brother, over the treasures of the house of YHWH.
23. Of the Amramites, of the Izharites, of the Hebronites, of the Uzzielites:
24. and Shebuel the son of Gershom, the son of Moshe, was ruler over the treasures.
25. His brothers: of Eliezer [came] Rehabiah his son, and Jeshaiah his son, and Joram his son, and Zichri his son, and Shelomoth his son.
26. This Shelomoth and his brothers were over all the treasures of the dedicated things, which Dawid the king, and the heads of the fathers' [houses], the captains over thousands and hundreds, and the captains of the army, had dedicated.
27. Out of the spoil won in battles did they dedicate to repair the house of YHWH.
28. All that Shmuel the seer, and Shaul the son of Kish, and Abner the son of Ner, and Yoav the son of Zeruiah, had dedicated, whoever had dedicated anything, it was under the hand of Shelomoth, and of their brothers.
29. Of the Izharites, Chenaniah and his sons were for the outward business over Israel, for officers and judges.
30. Of the Hebronites, Hashabiah and his brothers, men of valor, one thousand seven hundred, had the oversight of Israel beyond the Yarden westward, for all the business of YHWH, and for the service of the king.
31. Of the Hebronites was Jerijah the chief, even of the Hebronites, according to their generations by fathers' [houses]. In the fortieth year of the reign of Dawid they were sought for, and there were found among them mighty men of valor at Jazer of Gilead.
32. His brothers, men of valor, were two thousand seven hundred, heads of fathers' [houses], whom king Dawid made overseers over the Reubenites, and the Gadites, and the half-tribe of the Manassites, for every matter pertaining to Elohim, and for the affairs of the king.

1 Chronicles 27
1. Now the children of Israel after their number, the heads of fathers' [houses] and the captains of thousands and of hundreds, and their officers who served the king, in any matter of the divisions which came in and went out month by month throughout all the months of the year--of every division were twenty-four thousand.
2. Over the first division for the first month was Jashobeam the son of Zabdiel: and in his division were twenty-four thousand.
3. [He was] of the children of Perez, the chief of all the captains of the army for the first month.
4. Over the division of the second month was Dodai the Ahohite, and his division; and Mikloth the ruler: and in his division were twenty-four thousand.
5. The third captain of the army for the third month was Benayahu, the son of Yehoyada the priest, chief: and in his division were twenty-four thousand.
6. This is that Benayahu, who was the mighty man of the thirty, and over the thirty: and [of] his division was Ammizabad his son.
7. The fourth [captain] for the fourth month was Asahel the brother of Yoav, and Zebadiah his son after him: and in his division were twenty-four thousand.
8. The fifth captain for this fifth month was Shamhuth the Izrahite: and in his division were twenty-four thousand.
9. The sixth [captain] for the sixth month was Ira the son of Ikkesh the Tekoite: and in his division were twenty-four thousand.
10. The seventh [captain] for the seventh month was Helez the Pelonite, of the children of Efrayim: and in his division were twenty-four thousand.
11. The eighth [captain] for the eighth month was Sibbecai the Hushathite, of the Zerahites: and in his division were twenty-four thousand.
12. The ninth [captain] for the ninth month was Abiezer the Anathothite, of the Benjamites: and in his division were twenty-four thousand.
13. The tenth [captain] for the tenth month was Maharai the Netophathite, of the Zerahites: and in his division were Twenty-four thousand.
14. The eleventh [captain] for the eleventh month was Benayahu the Pirathonite, of the children of Efrayim: and in his division were twenty-four thousand.
15. The twelfth [captain] for the twelfth month was Heldai the Netophathite, of Othniel: and in his division were twenty-four thousand.
16. Furthermore over the tribes of Israel: of the Reubenites was Eliezer the son of Zichri the ruler: of the Simeonites, Shephatiah the son of Maacah:
17. of Levi, Hashabiah the son of Kemuel: of Aharon, Tzadok:
18. of Yehudah, Elihu, one of the brothers of Dawid: of Yissakhar, Omri the son of Michael:
19. of Zevulun, Ishmaiah the son of Obadiah: of Naphtali, Jeremoth the son of Azriel:
20. of the children of Efrayim, Hoshea the son of Azaziah: of the half-tribe of Menashe, Joel the son of Pedaiah:
21. of the half-tribe of Menashe in Gilead, Iddo the son of Zekharyah: of Binyamin, Jaasiel the son of Abner:
22. of Dan, Azarel the son of Jeroham. These were the captains of the tribes of Israel.
23. But Dawid didn't take the number of them from twenty years old and under, because YHWH had said he would increase Israel like the stars of the heavens.
24. Yoav the son of Zeruiah began to number, but didn't finish; and there came wrath for this on Israel; neither was the number put into the account in the chronicles of king Dawid.
25. Over the king's treasures was Azmaveth the son of Adiel: and over the treasures in the fields, in the cities, and in the villages, and in the towers, was Yonatan the son of Uzziah:
26. Over those who did the work of the field for tillage of the ground was Ezri the son of Chelub:
27. and over the vineyards was Shimei the Ramathite: and over the increase of the vineyards for the winecellars was Zabdi the Shiphmite:
28. and over the olive trees and the sycamore trees that were in the lowland was Baal Hanan the Gederite: and over the cellars of oil was Yoash:
29. and over the herds that fed in Sharon was Shitrai the Sharonite: and over the herds that were in the valleys was Shaphat the son of Adlai:
30. and over the camels was Obil the Ishmaelite: and over the donkeys was Jehdeiah the Meronothite: and over the flocks was Jaziz the Hagrite.
31. All these were the rulers of the substance which was king Dawid's.
32. Also Yonatan, Dawid's uncle, was a counselor, a person of understanding, and a scribe: and Jehiel the son of Hachmoni was with the king's sons:
33. Ahithophel was the king's counselor: and Hushai the Archite was the king's friend:
34. and after Ahithophel was Yehoyada the son of Benayahu, and Abiathar: and the captain of the king's army was Yoav.

1 Chronicles 28
1. Dawid assembled all the princes of Israel, the princes of the tribes, and the captains of the companies who served the king by division, and the captains of thousands, and the captains of hundreds, and the rulers over all the substance and possessions of the king and of his sons, with the officers, and the mighty men, even all the mighty men of valor, to Yerushalayim.
2. Then Dawid the king stood up on his feet, and said, Hear me, my brothers, and my people: as for me, it was in my heart to build a house of rest for the ark of the covenant of YHWH, and for the footstool of our God; and I had made ready for the building.
3. But Elohim said to me, You shall not build a house for my name, because you are a warrior, and have shed blood.
4. However YHWH, the God of Israel, chose me out of all the house of my father to be king over Israel forever: for he has chosen Yehudah to be prince; and in the house of Yehudah, the house of my father; and among the sons of my father he took pleasure in me to make me king over all Israel;
5. Of all my sons (for YHWH has given me many sons), he has chosen Shlomo my son to sit on the throne of the kingdom of YHWH over Israel.
6. He said to me, Shlomo your son, he shall build my house and my courts; for I have chosen him to be my son, and I will be his father.
7. I will establish his kingdom forever, if he be constant to do my commandments and my ordinances, as at this day.
8. Now therefore, in the sight of all Israel, the assembly of YHWH, and in the audience of our God, observe and seek out all the commandments of YHWH your God; that you may possess this good land, and leave it for an inheritance to your children after you forever.
9. You, Shlomo my son, know the God of your father, and serve him with a perfect heart and with a willing mind; for YHWH searches all hearts, and understands all the imaginations of the thoughts: if you seek him, he will be found of you; but if you forsake him, he will cast you off forever.
10. Take heed now; for YHWH has chosen you to build a house for the sanctuary: be strong, and do it.
11. Then Dawid gave to Shlomo his son the pattern of the porch [of the temple], and of the houses of it, and of the treasuries of it, and of the upper rooms of it, and of the inner chambers of it, and of the place of the mercy seat;
12. and the pattern of all that he had by the Ruach, for the courts of the house of YHWH, and for all the surrounding rooms, for the treasuries of the house of Elohim, and for the treasuries of the dedicated things;
13. also for the divisions of the priests and the Levites, and for all the work of the service of the house of YHWH, and for all the vessels of service in the house of YHWH;
14. of gold by weight for the [vessels of] gold, for all vessels of every kind of service; [of silver] for all the vessels of silver by weight, for all vessels of every kind of service;
15. by weight also for the lampstands of gold, and for the lamps of it, of gold, by weight for every lampstand and for the lamps of it; and for the lampstands of silver, [silver] by weight for [every] lampstand and for the lamps of it, according to the use of every lampstand;
16. and the gold by weight for the tables of show bread, for every table; and silver for the tables of silver;
17. and the forks, and the basins, and the cups, of pure gold; and for the golden bowls by weight for every bowl; and for the silver bowls by weight for every bowl;
18. and for the altar of incense refined gold by weight; and gold for the pattern of the chariot, [even] the cherubim, that spread out [their wings], and covered the ark of the covenant of YHWH.
19. All this, [said Dawid], have I been made to understand in writing from the hand of YHWH, even all the works of this pattern.
20. Dawid said to Shlomo his son, Be strong and of good courage, and do it: don't be afraid, nor be dismayed; for YHWH Elohim, even my God, is with you; he will not fail you, nor forsake you, until all the work for the service of the house of YHWH is finished.
21. Behold, there are the divisions of the priests and the Levites, for all the service of the house of Elohim: and there shall be with you in all manner of work every willing person who has skill, for any manner of service: also the captains and all the people will be entirely at your command.

1 Chronicles 29
1. Dawid the king said to all the assembly, Shlomo my son, whom alone Elohim has chosen, is yet young and tender, and the work is great; for the palace is not for man, but for YHWH Elohim.
2. Now I have prepared with all my might for the house of my God the gold for the [things of] gold, and the silver for the [things of] silver, and the brass for the [things of] brass, the iron for the [things of] iron, and wood for the [things of] wood; onyx stones, and [stones] to be set, stones for inlaid work, and of various colors, and all manner of precious stones, and marble stones in abundance.
3. In addition, because I have set my affection on the house of my God, seeing that I have a treasure of my own of gold and silver, I give it to the house of my God, over and above all that I have prepared for the holy house,
4. even three thousand talents of gold, of the gold of Ophir, and seven thousand talents of refined silver, with which to overlay the walls of the houses;
5. of gold for the [things of] gold, and of silver for the [things of] silver, and for all manner of work [to be made] by the hands of artificers. Who then offers willingly to consecrate himself this day to YHWH?
6. Then the princes of the fathers' [houses], and the princes of the tribes of Israel, and the captains of thousands and of hundreds, with the rulers over the king's work, offered willingly;
7. and they gave for the service of the house of God of gold five thousand talents and ten thousand darics, and of silver ten thousand talents, and of brass eighteen thousand talents, and of iron a hundred thousand talents.
8. They with whom [precious] stones were found gave them to the treasure of the house of YHWH, under the hand of Jehiel the Gershonite.
9. Then the people rejoiced, because they offered willingly, because with a perfect heart they offered willingly to YHWH: and Dawid the king also rejoiced with great joy.
10. Therefore Dawid blessed YHWH before all the assembly; and Dawid said, You are blessed, YHWH, the God of Israel our father, forever and ever.
11. Yours, YHWH, is the greatness, the power, the glory, the victory, and the majesty: for all that is in the heavens and in the earth is yours. Yours is the kingdom, YHWH, and you are exalted as head above all.
12. Both riches and honor come of you, and you rule over all; and in your hand is power and might; and it is in your hand to make great, and to give strength to all.
13. Now therefore, our God, we thank you, and praise your glorious name.
14. But who am I, and what is my people, that we should be able to offer so willingly as this? For all things come of you, and of your own have we given you.
15. For we are strangers before you, and foreigners, as all our fathers were: our days on the earth are as a shadow, and there is no abiding.
16. YHWH our God, all this store that we have prepared to build you a house for your holy name comes of your hand, and is all your own.
17. I know also, my God, that you try the heart, and have pleasure in uprightness. As for me, in the uprightness of my heart I have willingly offered all these things: and now have I seen with joy your people, that are present here, offer willingly to you.
18. YHWH, the God of Avraham, of Yitzhak, and of Israel, our fathers, keep this forever in the imagination of the thoughts of the heart of your people, and prepare their heart to you;
19. and give to Shlomo my son a perfect heart, to keep your commandments, your testimonies, and your statutes, and to do all these things, and to build the palace, for which I have made provision.
20. Dawid said to all the assembly, Now bless YHWH your God. All the assembly blessed YHWH, the God of their fathers, and bowed down their heads and prostrated themselves before YHWH and the king.
21. They sacrificed sacrifices to YHWH, and offered burnt offerings to YHWH, on the next day after that day, even one thousand bulls, one thousand rams, and one thousand lambs, with their drink offerings, and sacrifices in abundance for all Israel,
22. and ate and drink before YHWH on that day with great gladness. They made Shlomo the son of Dawid king the second time, and anointed him to YHWH to be prince, and Tzadok to be priest.
23. Then Shlomo sat on the throne of YHWH as king instead of Dawid his father, and prospered; and all Israel obeyed him.
24. All the princes, the mighty men, and also all of the sons of king Dawid submitted themselves to Shlomo the king.
25. YHWH magnified Shlomo exceedingly in the sight of all Israel, and bestowed on him such royal majesty as had not been on any king before him in Israel.
26. Now Dawid the son of Yishai reigned over all Israel.
27. The time that he reigned over Israel was forty years; he reigned seven years in Chevron, and thirty-three [years] reigned he in Yerushalayim.
28. He died in a good old age, full of days, riches, and honor: and Shlomo his son reigned in his place.
29. Now the acts of Dawid the king, first and last, behold, they are written in the history of Shmuel the seer, and in the history of Natan the prophet, and in the history of Gad the seer,
30. with all his reign and his might, and the times that went over him, and over Israel, and over all the kingdoms of the countries.

2 Chronicles 1
1. Shlomo the son of Dawid was strengthened in his kingdom, and YHWH his God was with him, and magnified him exceedingly.
2. Shlomo spoke to all Israel, to the captains of thousands and of hundreds, and to the judges, and to every prince in all Israel, the heads of the fathers' [houses].
3. So Shlomo, and all the assembly with him, went to the high place that was at Gibeon; for there was the tent of meeting of Elohim, which Moshe the servant of YHWH had made in the wilderness.
4. But Dawid had brought the ark of Elohim up from Kiriath Jearim to the place that Dawid had prepared for it; for he had pitched a tent for it at Yerushalayim.
5. Moreover the bronze altar, that Bezalel the son of Uri, the son of Hur, had made, was there before the tent of YHWH: and Shlomo and the assembly were seeking counsel there.
6. Shlomo went up there to the bronze altar before YHWH, which was at the tent of meeting, and offered one thousand burnt offerings on it.
7. In that night Elohim appeared to Shlomo, and said to him, "Ask what I shall give you."
8. Shlomo said to Elohim, You have shown great loving kindness to Dawid my father, and have made me king in his place.
9. Now, YHWH Elohim, let your promise to Dawid my father be established; for you have made me king over a people like the dust of the earth in multitude.
10. Give me now wisdom and knowledge, that I may go out and come in before this people; for who can judge this your people, that is so great?
11. Elohim said to Shlomo, Because this was in your heart, and you have not asked riches, wealth, or honor, nor the life of those who hate you, neither yet have asked long life; but have asked wisdom and knowledge for yourself, that you may judge my people, over whom I have made you king:
12. wisdom and knowledge is granted to you; and I will give you riches, and wealth, and honor, such as none of the kings have had who have been before you; neither shall there any after you have the like.
13. So Shlomo came from the high place that was at Gibeon, from before the tent of meeting, to Yerushalayim; and he reigned over Israel.
14. Shlomo gathered chariots and horsemen: and he had one thousand four hundred chariots, and twelve thousand horsemen, that he placed in the chariot cities, and with the king at Yerushalayim.
15. The king made silver and gold to be in Yerushalayim as stones, and cedars made he to be as the sycamore trees that are in the lowland, for abundance.
16. The horses which Shlomo had were brought out of Mitzrayim and from Kue; the king's merchants purchased them from Kue.
17. They brought up and brought out of Mitzrayim a chariot for six hundred pieces of silver, and a horse for one hundred fifty: and so for all the kings of the Hittites, and the kings of Aram, did they bring them out by their means.

2 Chronicles 2
1. Now Shlomo purposed to build a house for the name of YHWH, and a house for his kingdom.
2. Shlomo counted out seventy thousand men to bear burdens, and eighty thousand people who were stone cutters in the mountains, and three thousand and six hundred to oversee them.
3. Shlomo sent to Huram the king of Tzor, saying, As you dealt with Dawid my father, and sent him cedars to build him a house in which to dwell, [even so deal with me].
4. Behold, I am about to build a house for the name of YHWH my God, to dedicate it to him, and to burn before him incense of sweet spices, and for the continual show bread, and for the burnt offerings morning and evening, on the Sabbaths, and on the new moons, and on the set feasts of YHWH our God. This is [an ordinance] forever to Israel.
5. The house which I build is great; for great is our God above all gods.
6. But who is able to build him a house, seeing heavens and the heavens of heavens can't contain him? who am I then, that I should build him a house, save only to burn incense before him?
7. Now therefore send me a person skillful to work in gold, and in silver, and in brass, and in iron, and in purple, and crimson, and blue, and who knows how to engrave [all manner of] engravings, [to be] with the skillful people who are with me in Yehudah and in Yerushalayim, whom Dawid my father did provide.
8. Send me also cedar trees, fir trees, and algum trees, out of Levanon; for I know that your servants know how to cut timber in Levanon: and behold, my servants shall be with your servants,
9. even to prepare me timber in abundance; for the house which I am about to build shall be great and wonderful.
10. Behold, I will give to your servants, the cutters who cut timber, twenty thousand measures of beaten wheat, and twenty thousand measures of barley, and twenty thousand baths of wine, and twenty thousand baths of oil.
11. Then Huram the king of Tzor answered in writing, which he sent to Shlomo, "Because YHWH loves his people, he has made you king over them."
12. Huram continued, "Blessed be YHWH, the God of Israel, that made heavens and earth, who has given to Dawid the king a wise son, endowed with discretion and understanding, that should build a house for YHWH, and a house for his kingdom.
13. Now I have sent a skillful man, endowed with understanding, of Huram my father's,
14. the son of a woman of the daughters of Dan; and their father was a person of Tzor, skillful to work in gold, and in silver, in brass, in iron, in stone, and in timber, in purple, in blue, and in fine linen, and in crimson, also to engrave any manner of engraving, and to devise any device; that there may be a place appointed to him with your skillful men, and with the skillful men of my lord Dawid your father.
15. Now therefore the wheat and the barley, the oil and the wine, which my lord has spoken of, let him send to his servants:
16. and we will cut wood out of Levanon, as much as you shall need; and we will bring it to you in floats by sea to Yafo; and you shall carry it up to Yerushalayim."
17. Shlomo numbered all the foreigners who were in the land of Israel, after the numbering with which Dawid his father had numbered them; and they were found one hundred fifty-three thousand six hundred.
18. He set seventy thousand of them to bear burdens, and eighty thousand who were stone cutters in the mountains, and three thousand six hundred overseers to set the people at work.

2 Chronicles 3
1. Then Shlomo began to build the house of YHWH at Yerushalayim on Mount Moriah, where [YHWH] appeared to Dawid his father, which he made ready in the place that Dawid had appointed, in the threshing floor of Ornan the Jebusite.
2. He began to build in the second [day] of the second month, in the fourth year of his reign.
3. Now these are the foundations which Shlomo laid for the building of the house of Elohim. The length by cubits after the first measure was sixty cubits, and the breadth twenty cubits.
4. The porch that was before [the house], the length of it, according to the breadth of the house, was twenty cubits, and the height one hundred twenty; and he overlaid it within with pure gold.
5. The greater house he made a ceiling with fir wood, which he overlaid with fine gold, and ornamented it with palm trees and chains.
6. He garnished the house with precious stones for beauty: and the gold was gold of Parvaim.
7. He overlaid also the house, the beams, the thresholds, and the walls of it, and the doors of it, with gold; and engraved cherubim on the walls.
8. He made the most holy house: the length of it, according to the breadth of the house, was twenty cubits, and the breadth of it twenty cubits; and he overlaid it with fine gold, amounting to six hundred talents.
9. The weight of the nails was fifty shekels of gold. He overlaid the upper chambers with gold.
10. In the most holy house he made two cherubim of image work; and they overlaid them with gold.
11. The wings of the cherubim were twenty cubits long: the wing of the one [cherub] was five cubits, reaching to the wall of the house; and the other wing was [likewise] five cubits, reaching to the wing of the other cherub.
12. The wing of the other cherub was five cubits, reaching to the wall of the house; and the other wing was five cubits [also], joining to the wing of the other cherub.
13. The wings of these cherubim spread themselves forth twenty cubits: and they stood on their feet, and their faces were toward the house.
14. He made the veil of blue, and purple, and crimson, and fine linen, and ornamented it with cherubim.
15. Also he made before the house two pillars of thirty-five cubits high, and the capital that was on the top of each of them was five cubits.
16. He made chains in the oracle, and put [them] on the tops of the pillars; and he made one hundred pomegranates, and put them on the chains.
17. He set up the pillars before the temple, one on the right hand, and the other on the left; and called the name of that on the right hand Jachin, and the name of that on the left Boaz.

2 Chronicles 4
1. Then he made an altar of brass, twenty cubits the length of it, and twenty cubits the breadth of it, and ten cubits the height of it.
2. Also he made the molten sea of ten cubits from brim to brim, round in compass; and the height of it was five cubits; and a line of thirty cubits compassed it round about.
3. Under it was the likeness of oxen, which did compass it round about, for ten cubits, compassing the sea round about. The oxen were in two rows, cast when it was cast.
4. It stood on twelve oxen, three looking toward the north, and three looking toward the west, and three looking toward the south, and three looking toward the east: and the sea was set on them above, and all their hinder parts were inward.
5. It was a handbreadth thick; and the brim of it was worked like the brim of a cup, like the flower of a lily: it received and held three thousand baths.
6. He made also ten basins, and put five on the right hand, and five on the left, to wash in them; such things as belonged to the burnt offering they werehed in them; but the sea was for the priests to wash in.
7. He made the ten lampstands of gold according to the ordinance concerning them; and he set them in the temple, five on the right hand, and five on the left.
8. He made also ten tables, and placed them in the temple, five on the right side, and five on the left. He made one hundred basins of gold.
9. Furthermore he made the court of the priests, and the great court, and doors for the court, and overlaid the doors of them with brass.
10. He set the sea on the right side [of the house] eastward, toward the south.
11. Huram made the pots, and the shovels, and the basins. So Huram made an end of doing the work that he did for king Shlomo in the house of Elohim:
12. the two pillars, and the bowls, and the two capitals which were on the top of the pillars, and the two networks to cover the two bowls of the capitals that were on the top of the pillars,
13. and the four hundred pomegranates for the two networks; two rows of pomegranates for each network, to cover the two bowls of the capitals that were on the pillars.
14. He made also the bases, and the basins made he on the bases;
15. one sea, and the twelve oxen under it.
16. The pots also, and the shovels, and the forks, and all the vessels of it, did Huram his father make for king Shlomo for the house of YHWH of bright brass.
17. In the plain of the Yarden did the king cast them, in the clay ground between Succoth and Zeredah.
18. Thus Shlomo made all these vessels in great abundance: for the weight of the brass could not be found out.
19. Shlomo made all the vessels that were in the house of Elohim, the golden altar also, and the tables with the show bread on them;
20. and the lampstands with their lamps, to burn according to the ordinance before the oracle, of pure gold;
21. and the flowers, and the lamps, and the tongs, of gold, and that perfect gold;
22. and the snuffers, and the basins, and the spoons, and the fire pans, of pure gold: and as for the entry of the house, the inner doors of it for the most holy place, and the doors of the main hall of the temple were of gold.

2 Chronicles 5
1. Thus all the work that Shlomo did for the house of YHWH was finished. Shlomo brought in the things that Dawid his father had dedicated, even the silver, and the gold, and all the vessels, and put them in the treasuries of the house of Elohim.
2. Then Shlomo assembled the elders of Israel, and all the heads of the tribes, the princes of the fathers' [houses] of the children of Israel, to Yerushalayim, to bring up the ark of the covenant of YHWH out of the city of Dawid, which is Tzion.
3. And all the people of Israel assembled themselves to the king at the feast, which was [in] the seventh month.
4. All the elders of Israel came: and the Levites took up the ark;
5. and they brought up the ark, and the tent of meeting, and all the holy vessels that were in the Tent; these did the priests the Levites bring up.
6. King Shlomo and all the congregation of Israel, that were assembled to him, were before the ark, sacrificing sheep and oxen, that could not be counted nor numbered for multitude.
7. The priests brought in the ark of the covenant of YHWH to its place, into the oracle of the house, to the most holy place, even under the wings of the cherubim.
8. For the cherubim spread forth their wings over the place of the ark, and the cherubim covered the ark and the poles of it above.
9. The poles were so long that the ends of the poles were seen from the ark before the oracle; but they were not seen outside: and there it is to this day.
10. There was nothing in the ark save the two tables which Moshe put [there] at Horeb, when YHWH made a covenant with the children of Israel, when they came out of Mitzrayim.
11. It happened, when the priests were come out of the holy place, (for all the priests who were present had sanctified themselves, and did not keep their divisions;
12. also the Levites who were the singers, all of them, even Asaph, Heman, Jeduthun, and their sons and their brothers, arrayed in fine linen, with cymbals and stringed instruments and harps, stood at the east end of the altar, and with them one hundred twenty priests sounding with trumpets;)
13. it happened, when the trumpeters and singers were as one, to make one sound to be heard in praising and thanking YHWH; and when they lifted up their voice with the trumpets and cymbals and instruments of music, and praised YHWH, [saying], For he is good; for his loving kindness endures forever; that then the house was filled with a cloud, even the house of YHWH,
14. so that the priests could not stand to minister by reason of the cloud: for the glory of YHWH filled the house of Elohim.

2 Chronicles 6
1. Then spoke Shlomo, YHWH has said that he would dwell in the thick darkness.
2. But I have built you a house of habitation, and a place for you to dwell in forever.
3. The king turned his face, and blessed all the assembly of Israel: and all the assembly of Israel stood.
4. He said, Blessed be YHWH, the God of Israel, who spoke with his mouth to Dawid my father, and has with his hands fulfilled it, saying,
5. Since the day that I brought forth my people out of the land of Mitzrayim, I chose no city out of all the tribes of Israel to build a house in, that my name might be there; neither chose I anyone to be prince over my people Israel:
6. but I have chosen Yerushalayim, that my name might be there; and have chosen Dawid to be over my people Israel.
7. Now it was in the heart of Dawid my father to build a house for the name of YHWH, the God of Israel.
8. But YHWH said to Dawid my father, Whereas it was in your heart to build a house for my name, you did well that it was in your heart:
9. nevertheless you shall not build the house; but your son who shall come forth out of your body, he shall build the house for my name.
10. YHWH has performed his word that he spoke; for I am risen up in the room of Dawid my father, and sit on the throne of Israel, as YHWH promised, and have built the house for the name of YHWH, the God of Israel.
11. There have I set the ark, in which is the covenant of YHWH, which he made with the children of Israel.
12. He stood before the altar of YHWH in the presence of all the assembly of Israel, and spread forth his hands
13. (for Shlomo had made a bronze scaffold, five cubits long, and five cubits broad, and three cubits high, and had set it in the midst of the court; and on it he stood, and kneeled down on his knees before all the assembly of Israel, and spread forth his hands toward heavens;)
14. and he said, YHWH, the God of Israel, there is no Elohim like you, in heavens, or on earth; who keep covenant and loving kindness with your servants, who walk before you with all their heart;
15. who have kept with your servant Dawid my father that which you did promise him: yes, you spoke with your mouth, and have fulfilled it with your hand, as it is this day.
16. Now therefore, YHWH, the God of Israel, keep with your servant Dawid my father that which you have promised him, saying, There shall not fail you a person in my sight to sit on the throne of Israel, if only your children take heed to their way, to walk in my law as you have walked before me.
17. Now therefore, YHWH, the God of Israel, let your word be verified, which you spoke to your servant Dawid.
18. But will Elohim indeed dwell with people on the earth? Behold, heavens and the heavens of heavens can't contain you; how much less this house which I have built!
19. Yet have you respect to the prayer of your servant, and to his supplication, YHWH my God, to listen to the cry and to the prayer which your servant prays before you;
20. that your eyes may be open toward this house day and night, even toward the place where you have said that you would put your name; to listen to the prayer which your servant shall pray toward this place.
21. Listen to the petitions of your servant, and of your people Israel, when they shall pray toward this place: yes, hear from your dwelling place, even from heavens; and when you hear, forgive.
22. If someone sin against their neighbor, and an oath is laid on him to cause him to swear, and they come and swears before your altar in this house;
23. then hear from heavens, and do, and judge your servants, bringing retribution to the wicked, to bring his way on his own head; and justifying the righteous, to give him according to his righteousness.
24. If your people Israel be struck down before the enemy, because they have sinned against you, and shall turn again and confess your name, and pray and make supplication before you in this house;
25. then hear from heavens, and forgive the sin of your people Israel, and bring them again to the land which you gave to them and to their fathers.
26. When the heavens is shut up, and there is no rain, because they have sinned against you; if they pray toward this place, and confess your name, and turn from their sin, when you do afflict them:
27. then hear in heavens, and forgive the sin of your servants, and of your people Israel, when you teach them the good way in which they should walk; and send rain on your land, which you have given to your people for an inheritance.
28. If there be in the land famine, if there be pestilence, if there is blight or mildew, locust or caterpillar; if their enemies besiege them in the land of their cities; whatever plague or whatever sickness there be;
29. whatever prayer and supplication be made by anyone, or by all your people Israel, who shall know everyone their own plague and their own sorrow, and shall spread forth their hands toward this house:
30. then hear from heavens, your dwelling place and forgive, and render to everyone according to all their ways, whose heart you know; (for you, even you only, know the hearts of the children of people;)
31. that they may revere you, to walk in your ways, so long as they live in the land which you gave to our fathers.
32. Moreover concerning the foreigner, who is not of your people Israel, when he shall come from a far country for your great name's sake, and your mighty hand, and your outstretched arm; when they shall come and pray toward this house:
33. then hear from heavens, even from your dwelling place, and do according to all that the foreigner calls to you for; that all the peoples of the earth may know your name, and revere you, as does your people Israel, and that they may know that this house which I have built is called by your name.
34. If your people go out to battle against their enemies, by whatever way you shall send them, and they pray to you toward this city which you have chosen, and the house which I have built for your name;
35. then hear from heavens their prayer and their supplication, and maintain their cause.
36. If they sin against you (for there is no one who doesn't sin), and you are angry with them, and deliver them to the enemy, so that they carry them away captive to a land far off or near;
37. yet if they turn back in the land where they are carried captive, and turn again, and make supplication to you in the land of their captivity, saying, We have sinned, we have done perversely, and have dealt wickedly;
38. if they return to you with all their heart and with all their soul in the land of their captivity, where they have carried them captive, and pray toward their land, which you gave to their fathers, and the city which you have chosen, and toward the house which I have built for your name:
39. then hear from heavens, even from your dwelling place, their prayer and their petitions, and maintain their cause, and forgive your people who have sinned against you.
40. Now, my God, let, I beg you, your eyes be open, and let your ears be attentive, to the prayer that is made in this place.
41. Now therefore arise, YHWH Elohim, into your resting place, you, and the ark of your strength: let your priests, YHWH Elohim, be clothed with salvation, and let your saints rejoice in goodness.
42. YHWH Elohim, don't turn away the face of your anointed: remember [your] loving kindnesses to Dawid your servant.

2 Chronicles 7
1. Now when Shlomo had made an end of praying, the fire came down from heavens, and consumed the burnt offering and the sacrifices; and the glory of YHWH filled the house.
2. The priests could not enter into the house of YHWH, because the glory of YHWH filled YHWH's house.
3. All the children of Israel looked on, when the fire came down, and the glory of YHWH was on the house; and they bowed themselves with their faces to the ground on the pavement, and worshiped, and gave thanks to YHWH, [saying], For he is good; for his loving kindness endures for ever.
4. Then the king and all the people offered sacrifice before YHWH.
5. King Shlomo offered a sacrifice of twenty-two thousand oxen, and a hundred and twenty thousand sheep. So the king and all the people dedicated the house of Elohim.
6. The priests stood, according to their offices; the Levites also with instruments of music of YHWH, which Dawid the king had made to give thanks to YHWH, (for his loving kindness endures for ever), when Dawid praised by their ministry: and the priests sounded trumpets before them; and all Israel stood.
7. Moreover Shlomo made the middle of the court holy that was before the house of YHWH; for there he offered the burnt offerings, and the fat of the peace offerings, because the bronze altar which Shlomo had made was not able to receive the burnt offering, and the meal offering, and the fat.
8. So Shlomo held the feast at that time seven days, and all Israel with him, a very great assembly, from the entrance of Hamath to the brook of Mitzrayim.
9. On the eighth day they held a solemn assembly: for they kept the dedication of the altar seven days, and the feast seven days.
10. On the three and twentieth day of the seventh month he sent the people away to their tents, joyful and glad of heart for the goodness that YHWH had shown to Dawid, and to Shlomo, and to Israel his people.
11. Thus Shlomo finished the house of YHWH, and the king's house: and he successfully completed all that came into Shlomo's heart to make in the house of YHWH, and in his own house.
12. YHWH appeared to Shlomo by night, and said to him, I have heard your prayer, and have chosen this place to myself for a house of sacrifice.
13. If I shut up the heavens so that there is no rain, or if I command the locust to devour the land, or if I send pestilence among my people;
14. if my people, who are called by my name, shall humble themselves, and pray, and seek my face, and turn from their wicked ways; then will I hear from heavens, and will forgive their sin, and will heal their land.
15. Now my eyes shall be open, and my ears attentive, to the prayer that is made in this place.
16. For now have I chosen and made this house holy, that my name may be there forever; and my eyes and my heart shall be there perpetually.
17. As for you, if you will walk before me as Dawid your father walked, and do according to all that I have commanded you, and will keep my statutes and my ordinances;
18. then I will establish the throne of your kingdom, according as I covenanted with Dawid your father, saying, There shall not fail you a person to be ruler in Israel.
19. But if you turn away, and forsake my statutes and my commandments which I have set before you, and shall go and serve other gods, and worship them;
20. then will I pluck them up by the roots out of my land which I have given them; and this house, which I have made holy for my name, will I cast out of my sight, and I will make it a proverb and a byword among all peoples.
21. This house, which is so high, everyone who passes by it shall be astonished, and shall say, Why has YHWH done thus to this land, and to this house?
22. They shall answer, Because they abandoned YHWH, the God of their fathers, who brought them forth out of the land of Mitzrayim, and laid hold on other gods, and worshiped them, and served them: therefore has he brought all this brokenness on them.

2 Chronicles 8
1. It happened at the end of twenty years, in which Shlomo had built the house of YHWH, and his own house,
2. that the cities which Huram had given to Shlomo, Shlomo built them, and caused the children of Israel to dwell there.
3. Shlomo went to Hamath Zobah, and prevailed against it.
4. He built Tadmor in the wilderness, and all the storage cities, which he built in Hamath.
5. Also he built Beth Horon the upper, and Beth Horon the lower, fortified cities, with walls, gates, and bars;
6. and Baalath, and all the storage cities that Shlomo had, and all the cities for his chariots, and the cities for his horsemen, and all that Shlomo desired to build for his pleasure in Yerushalayim, and in Levanon, and in all the land of his dominion.
7. As for all the people who were left of the Hittites, and the Amorites, and the Perizzites, and the Hivites, and the Jebusites, who were not of Israel;
8. of their children who were left after them in the land, whom the children of Israel didn't consume, of them did Shlomo conscripted forced labor to this day.
9. But of the children of Israel did Shlomo make no servants for his work; but they were men of war, and chief of his captains, and rulers of his chariots and of his horsemen.
10. These were the chief officers of king Shlomo, even two-hundred fifty, who ruled over the people.
11. Shlomo brought up the daughter of Pharaoh out of the city of Dawid to the house that he had built for her; for he said, My wife shall not dwell in the house of Dawid king of Israel, because the places where the ark of YHWH has come are holy.
12. Then Shlomo offered burnt offerings to YHWH on the altar of YHWH, which he had built before the porch,
13. even as the duty of every day required, offering according to the commandment of Moshe, on the Sabbaths, and on the new moons, and on the set feasts, three times in the year, [even] in the feast of unleavened bread, and in the feast of weeks, and in the feast of tents.
14. He appointed, according to the ordinance of Dawid his father, the divisions of the priests to their service, and the Levites to their offices, to praise, and to minister before the priests, as the duty of every day required; the doorkeepers also by their divisions at every gate: for so had Dawid the person of Elohim commanded.
15. They didn't depart from the commandment of the king to the priests and Levites concerning any matter, or concerning the treasures.
16. Now all the work of Shlomo was prepared to the day of the foundation of the house of YHWH, and until it was finished. [So] the house of YHWH was completed.
17. Then went Shlomo to Ezion Geber, and to Eloth, on the seashore in the land of Edom.
18. Huram sent him ships and servants who had knowledge of the sea by the hands of his servants; and they came with the servants of Shlomo to Ophir, and fetched from there four hundred fifty talents of gold, and brought them to king Shlomo.

2 Chronicles 9
1. When the queen of Sheba heard of the fame of Shlomo, she came to prove Shlomo with hard questions at Yerushalayim, with a very great train, and camels that bore spices, and gold in abundance, and precious stones: and when she was come to Shlomo, she talked with him of all that was in her heart.
2. Shlomo told her all her questions; and there was not anything hid from Shlomo which he didn't tell her.
3. When the queen of Sheba had seen the wisdom of Shlomo, and the house that he had built,
4. and the food of his table, and the sitting of his servants, and the attendance of his ministers, and their clothing, his cup bearers also, and their clothing, and his ascent by which he went up to the house of YHWH; there was no more spirit in her.
5. She said to the king, It was a true report that I heard in my own land of your acts, and of your wisdom.
6. However I didn't believe their words, until I came, and my eyes had seen it; and behold, the half of the greatness of your wisdom was not told me: you exceed the fame that I heard.
7. Happy are your men, and happy are these your servants, who stand continually before you, and hear your wisdom.
8. Blessed be YHWH your God, who delighted in you, to set you on his throne, to be king for YHWH your God: because your God loved Israel, to establish them forever, therefore made he you king over them, to do justice and righteousness.
9. She gave the king one hundred and twenty talents of gold, and spices in great abundance, and precious stones: neither was there any such spice as the queen of Sheba gave to king Shlomo.
10. The servants also of Huram, and the servants of Shlomo, who brought gold from Ophir, brought algum trees and precious stones.
11. The king made of the algum trees terraces for the house of YHWH, and for the king's house, and harps and stringed instruments for the singers: and there were none like these seen before in the land of Yehudah.
12. King Shlomo gave to the queen of Sheba all her desire, whatever she asked, besides that which she had brought to the king. So she turned, and went to her own land, she and her servants.
13. Now the weight of gold that came to Shlomo in one year was six hundred and sixty-six talents of gold,
14. besides that which the traders and merchants brought: and all the kings of Arabia and the governors of the country brought gold and silver to Shlomo.
15. King Shlomo made two hundred bucklers of beaten gold; six hundred [shekels] of beaten gold went to one buckler.
16. [he made] three hundred shields of beaten gold; three hundred [shekels] of gold went to one shield: and the king put them in the house of the forest of Levanon.
17. Moreover the king made a great throne of ivory, and overlaid it with pure gold.
18. And there were six steps to the throne, with a footstool of gold, which were fastened to the throne, and stays on either side by the place of the seat, and two lions standing beside the stays.
19. Twelve lions stood there on the one side and on the other on the six steps: there was nothing like it made in any kingdom.
20. All king Shlomo's drinking vessels were of gold, and all the vessels of the house of the forest of Levanon were of pure gold: silver was nothing accounted of in the days of Shlomo.
21. For the king had ships that went to Tarshish with the servants of Huram; once every three years came the ships of Tarshish, bringing gold, and silver, ivory, and apes, and peacocks.
22. So king Shlomo exceeded all the kings of the earth in riches and wisdom.
23. All the kings of the earth sought the presence of Shlomo, to hear his wisdom, which Elohim had put in his heart.
24. They brought everyone their tribute, vessels of silver, and vessels of gold, and clothing, armor, and spices, horses, and mules, a rate year by year.
25. Shlomo had four thousand stalls for horses and chariots, and twelve thousand horsemen, that he stationed in the chariot cities, and with the king at Yerushalayim.
26. He ruled over all the kings from the River even to the land of the Philistines, and to the border of Mitzrayim.
27. The king made silver to be in Yerushalayim as stones, and he made cedars to be as the sycamore trees that are in the lowland, for abundance.
28. They brought horses for Shlomo out of Mitzrayim, and out of all lands.
29. Now the rest of the acts of Shlomo, first and last, aren't they written in the history of Natan the prophet, and in the prophecy of Ahijah the Shilonite, and in the visions of Iddo the seer concerning Yerovam the son of Nebat?
30. Shlomo reigned in Yerushalayim over all Israel forty years.
31. Shlomo slept with his fathers, and he was buried in the city of Dawid his father: and Rechavam his son reigned in his place.

2 Chronicles 10
1. Rechavam went to Shekhem; for all Israel were come to Shekhem to make him king.
2. It happened, when Yerovam the son of Nebat heard of it, (for he was in Mitzrayim, where he had fled from the presence of king Shlomo), that Yerovam returned out of Mitzrayim.
3. They sent and called him; and Yerovam and all Israel came, and they spoke to Rechavam, saying,
4. Your father made our yoke grievous: now therefore make you the grievous service of your father, and his heavy yoke which he put on us, lighter, and we will serve you.
5. He said to them, Come again to me after three days. The people departed.
6. King Rechavam took counsel with the old men, who had stood before Shlomo his father while he yet lived, saying, What counsel give you me to return answer to this people?
7. They spoke to him, saying, If you are kind to this people, and please them, and speak good words to them, then they will be your servants forever.
8. But he forsook the counsel of the old men which they had given him, and took counsel with the young people who had grown up with him, who stood before him.
9. He said to them, What counsel give you, that we may return answer to this people, who have spoken to me, saying, Make the yoke that your father did put on us lighter?
10. The young people who had grown up with him spoke to him, saying, Thus shall you tell the people who spoke to you, saying, Your father made our yoke heavy, but make you it lighter to us; thus shall you say to them, My little finger is thicker than my father's waist.
11. Now whereas my father did lade you with a heavy yoke, I will add to your yoke: my father chastised you with whips, but I [will chastise you] with scorpions.
12. So Yerovam and all the people came to Rechavam the third day, as the king bade, saying, Come to me again the third day.
13. The king answered them roughly; and king Rechavam forsook the counsel of the old men,
14. and spoke to them after the counsel of the young people, saying, My father made your yoke heavy, but I will add thereto: my father chastised you with whips, but I [will chastise you] with scorpions.
15. So the king didn't listen to the people; for it was brought about of Elohim, that YHWH might establish his word, which he spoke by Ahijah the Shilonite to Yerovam the son of Nebat.
16. When all Israel saw that the king didn't listen to them, the people answered the king, saying, What portion have we in Dawid? neither have we inheritance in the son of Yishai: everyone to your tents, Israel: now see to your own house, Dawid. So all Israel departed to their tents.
17. But as for the children of Israel who lived in the cities of Yehudah, Rechavam reigned over them.
18. Then king Rechavam sent Hadoram, who was over the men subject to forced labor; and the children of Israel stoned him to death with stones. King Rechavam made speed to get him up to his chariot, to flee to Yerushalayim.
19. So Israel rebelled against the house of Dawid to this day.

2 Chronicles 11
1. When Rechavam was come to Yerushalayim, he assembled the house of Yehudah and Binyamin, one hundred eighty thousand chosen men, who were warriors, to fight against Israel, to bring the kingdom again to Rechavam.
2. But the word of YHWH came to Shemaiah the person of Elohim, saying,
3. Speak to Rechavam the son of Shlomo, king of Yehudah, and to all Israel in Yehudah and Binyamin, saying,
4. Thus says YHWH, You shall not go up, nor fight against your brothers: return everyone to their house; for this thing is of me. So they listened to the words of YHWH, and returned from going against Yerovam.
5. Rechavam lived in Yerushalayim, and built cities for defense in Yehudah.
6. He built Beit Lechem, and Etam, and Tekoa,
7. Beth Zur, and Soco, and Adullam,
8. and Gath, and Mareshah, and Ziph,
9. and Adoraim, and Lachish, and Azekah,
10. and Zorah, and Aijalon, and Chevron, which are in Yehudah and in Binyamin, fortified cities.
11. He fortified the strongholds, and put captains in them, and stores of food, and oil and wine.
12. In every city [he put] shields and spears, and made them exceeding strong. Yehudah and Binyamin belonged to him.
13. The priests and the Levites who were in all Israel resorted to him out of all their border.
14. For the Levites left their suburbs and their possession, and came to Yehudah and Yerushalayim: for Yerovam and his sons cast them off, that they should not execute the priest's office to YHWH;
15. and he appointed him priests for the high places, and for the male goats, and for the calves which he had made.
16. After them, out of all the tribes of Israel, such as set their hearts to seek YHWH, the God of Israel, came to Yerushalayim to sacrifice to YHWH, the God of their fathers.
17. So they strengthened the kingdom of Yehudah, and made Rechavam the son of Shlomo strong, three years; for they walked three years in the way of Dawid and Shlomo.
18. Rechavam took him a wife, Mahalath the daughter of Jerimoth the son of Dawid, [and of] Abihail the daughter of Eliab the son of Yishai;
19. and she bore him sons: Jeush, and Shemariah, and Zaham.
20. After her he took Maacah the daughter of Avshalom; and she bore him Abijah, and Attai, and Ziza, and Shelomith.
21. Rechavam loved Maacah the daughter of Avshalom above all his wives and his concubines: (for he took eighteen wives, and sixty concubines, and became the father of twenty-eight sons and sixty daughters.)
22. Rechavam appointed Abijah the son of Maacah to be chief, [even] the prince among his brothers; for [he was minded] to make him king.
23. He dealt wisely, and dispersed of all his sons throughout all the lands of Yehudah and Binyamin, to every fortified city: and he gave them food in abundance. He sought [for them] many wives.

2 Chronicles 12
1. It happened, when the kingdom of Rechavam was established, and he was strong, that he forsook the law of YHWH, and all Israel with him.
2. It happened in the fifth year of king Rechavam, that Shishak king of Mitzrayim came up against Yerushalayim, because they had trespassed against YHWH,
3. with twelve hundred chariots, and sixty thousand horsemen. The people were without number who came with him out of Mitzrayim: the Lubim, the Sukkiim, and the Ethiopians.
4. He took the fortified cities which pertained to Yehudah, and came to Yerushalayim.
5. Now Shemaiah the prophet came to Rechavam, and to the princes of Yehudah, who were gathered together to Yerushalayim because of Shishak, and said to them, Thus says YHWH, You have forsaken me, therefore have I also left you in the hand of Shishak.
6. Then the princes of Israel and the king humbled themselves; and they said, YHWH is righteous.
7. When YHWH saw that they humbled themselves, the word of YHWH came to Shemaiah, saying, They have humbled themselves: I will not destroy them; but I will grant them some deliverance, and my wrath shall not be poured out on Yerushalayim by the hand of Shishak.
8. Nevertheless they shall be his servants, that they may know my service, and the service of the kingdoms of the countries.
9. So Shishak king of Mitzrayim came up against Yerushalayim, and took away the treasures of the house of YHWH, and the treasures of the king's house: he took all away: he took away also the shields of gold which Shlomo had made.
10. King Rechavam made in their place shields of brass, and committed them to the hands of the captains of the guard, who kept the door of the king's house.
11. It was so, that as often as the king entered into the house of YHWH, the guard came and bore them, and brought them back into the guard chamber.
12. When he humbled himself, the wrath of YHWH turned from him, so as not to destroy him altogether: and moreover in Yehudah there were good things [found].
13. So king Rechavam strengthened himself in Yerushalayim, and reigned: for Rechavam was forty-one years old when he began to reign, and he reigned seventeen years in Yerushalayim, the city which YHWH had chosen out of all the tribes of Israel, to put his name there: and his mother's name was Naamah the Ammonitess.
14. He did what was broken, because he didn't set his heart to seek YHWH.
15. Now the acts of Rechavam, first and last, aren't they written in the histories of Shemaiah the prophet and of Iddo the seer, after the manner of genealogies? There were wars between Rechavam and Yerovam continually.
16. Rechavam slept with his fathers, and was buried in the city of Dawid: and Abijah his son reigned in his place.

2 Chronicles 13
1. In the eighteenth year of king Yerovam began Abijah to reign over Yehudah.
2. Three years reigned he in Yerushalayim: and his mother's name was Micaiah the daughter of Uriel of Gibeah. There was war between Abijah and Yerovam.
3. Abijah joined battle with an army of valiant men of war, even four hundred thousand chosen men: and Yerovam set the battle in array against him with eight hundred thousand chosen men, who were mighty men of valor.
4. Abijah stood up on Mount Zemaraim, which is in the hill country of Efrayim, and said, Hear me, Yerovam and all Israel:
5. Ought you not to know that YHWH, the God of Israel, gave the kingdom over Israel to Dawid forever, even to him and to his sons by a covenant of salt?
6. Yet Yerovam the son of Nebat, the servant of Shlomo the son of Dawid, rose up, and rebelled against his lord.
7. There were gathered to him worthless men, base fellows, who strengthened themselves against Rechavam the son of Shlomo, when Rechavam was young and tender-hearted, and could not withstand them.
8. Now you think to withstand the kingdom of YHWH in the hand of the sons of Dawid; and you are a great multitude, and there are with you the golden calves which Yerovam made you for gods.
9. Haven't you driven out the priests of YHWH, the sons of Aharon, and the Levites, and made you priests after the manner of the peoples of [other] lands? so that whoever comes to consecrate themselves with a young bull and seven rams, the same may be a priest of [those who are] no gods.
10. But as for us, YHWH is our God, and we have not forsaken him; and [we have] priests ministering to YHWH, the sons of Aharon, and the Levites in their work:
11. and they burn to YHWH every morning and every evening burnt offerings and sweet incense: the show bread also [set they] in order on the pure table; and the lampstand of gold with the lamps of it, to burn every evening: for we keep the charge of YHWH our God; but you have forsaken him.
12. Behold, Elohim is with us at our head, and his priests with the trumpets of alarm to sound an alarm against you. Children of Israel, don't you fight against YHWH, the God of your fathers; for you shall not prosper.
13. But Yerovam caused an ambush to come about behind them: so they were before Yehudah, and the ambush was behind them.
14. When Yehudah looked back, behold, the battle was before and behind them; and they cried to YHWH, and the priests sounded with the trumpets.
15. Then the people of Yehudah gave a shout: and as the people of Yehudah shouted, it happened, that Elohim struck Yerovam and all Israel before Abijah and Yehudah.
16. The children of Israel fled before Yehudah; and Elohim delivered them into their hand.
17. Abijah and his people killed them with a great slaughter: so there fell down slain of Israel five hundred thousand chosen men.
18. Thus the children of Israel were brought under at that time, and the children of Yehudah prevailed, because they relied on YHWH, the God of their fathers.
19. Abijah pursued after Yerovam, and took cities from him, Beit El with the towns of it, and Jeshanah with the towns of it, and Ephron with the towns of it.
20. Neither did Yerovam recover strength again in the days of Abijah: and YHWH struck him, and he died.
21. But Abijah grew mighty, and took to himself fourteen wives, and became the father of twenty-two sons, and sixteen daughters.
22. The rest of the acts of Abijah, and his ways, and his sayings, are written in the commentary of the prophet Iddo.

2 Chronicles 14
1. So Abijah slept with his fathers, and they buried him in the city of Dawid; and Asa his son reigned in his place. In his days the land was quiet ten years.
2. Asa did that which was good and right in the eyes of YHWH his God:
3. for he took away the foreign altars, and the high places, and broke down the pillars, and hewed down the Asherim,
4. and commanded Yehudah to seek YHWH, the God of their fathers, and to do the law and the commandment.
5. Also he took away out of all the cities of Yehudah the high places and the sun images: and the kingdom was quiet before him.
6. He built fortified cities in Yehudah; for the land was quiet, and he had no war in those years, because YHWH had given him rest.
7. For he said to Yehudah, Let us build these cities, and make about them walls, and towers, gates, and bars; the land is yet before us, because we have sought YHWH our God; we have sought him, and he has given us rest on every side. So they built and prospered.
8. Asa had an army that bore bucklers and spears, out of Yehudah three hundred thousand; and out of Binyamin, that bore shields and drew bows, two hundred eighty thousand: all these were mighty men of valor.
9. There came out against them Zerah the Ethiopian with an army of a million troops, and three hundred chariots; and he came to Mareshah.
10. Then Asa went out to meet him, and they set the battle in array in the valley of Zephathah at Mareshah.
11. Asa cried to YHWH their God, and said, YHWH, there is none besides you to help, between the mighty and the one who has no strength: help us, YHWH our God; for we rely on you, and in your name are we come against this multitude. YHWH, you are our God; don't let man prevail against you.
12. So YHWH struck the Ethiopians before Asa, and before Yehudah; and the Ethiopians fled.
13. Asa and the people who were with him pursued them to Gerar: and there fell of the Ethiopians so many that they could not recover themselves; for they were destroyed before YHWH, and before his army; and they carried away very much booty.
14. They struck all the cities round about Gerar; for reverence for YHWH came on them: and they despoiled all the cities; for there was much spoil in them.
15. They struck also the tents of livestock, and carried away sheep in abundance, and camels, and returned to Yerushalayim.

2 Chronicles 15
1. The Ruach of Elohim came on Azaryah the son of Oded:
2. and he went out to meet Asa, and said to him, Hear you me, Asa, and all Yehudah and Binyamin: YHWH is with you, while you are with him; and if you seek him, he will be found of you; but if you forsake him, he will forsake you.
3. Now for a long season Israel was without the true Elohim, and without a teaching priest, and without law:
4. But when in their distress they turned to YHWH, the God of Israel, and sought him, he was found of them.
5. In those times there was no peace to the one who went out, nor to the one who came in; but great vexations were on all the inhabitants of the lands.
6. They were broken in pieces, nation against nation, and city against city; for Elohim did vex them with all adversity.
7. But be you strong, and don't let your hands be slack; for your work shall be rewarded.
8. When Asa heard these words, and the prophecy of Oded the prophet, he took courage, and put away the abominations out of all the land of Yehudah and Binyamin, and out of the cities which he had taken from the hill country of Efrayim; and he renewed the altar of YHWH, that was before the porch of YHWH.
9. He gathered all Yehudah and Binyamin, and those who sojourned with them out of Efrayim and Menashe, and out of Shim'on: for they fell to him out of Israel in abundance, when they saw that YHWH his God was with him.
10. So they gathered themselves together at Yerushalayim in the third month, in the fifteenth year of the reign of Asa.
11. They sacrificed to YHWH in that day, of the spoil which they had brought, seven hundred oxen and seven thousand sheep.
12. They entered into the covenant to seek YHWH, the God of their fathers, with all their heart and with all their soul;
13. and that whoever would not seek YHWH, the God of Israel, should be put to death, whether small or great, whether man or woman.
14. They swore to YHWH with a loud voice, and with shouting, and with trumpets, and with cornets.
15. All Yehudah rejoiced at the oath; for they had sworn with all their heart, and sought him with their whole desire; and he was found of them: and YHWH gave them rest round about.
16. Also Maacah, the mother of Asa the king, he removed from being queen, because she had made an abominable image for an Asherah; and Asa cut down her image, and made dust of it, and burnt it at the brook Kidron.
17. But the high places were not taken away out of Israel: nevertheless the heart of Asa was perfect all his days.
18. He brought into the house of Elohim the things that his father had dedicated, and that he himself had dedicated, silver, and gold, and vessels.
19. There was no more war to the five and thirtieth year of the reign of Asa.

2 Chronicles 16
1. In the six and thirtieth year of the reign of Asa, Baasha king of Israel went up against Yehudah, and built Ramah, that they might not allow anyone to go out or come in to Asa king of Yehudah.
2. Then Asa brought out silver and gold out of the treasures of the house of YHWH and of the king's house, and sent to Ben Hadad king of Aram, who lived at Dammeseq, saying,
3. [There is] a league between me and you, as [there was] between my father and your father: behold, I have sent you silver and gold; go, break your league with Baasha king of Israel, that he may depart from me.
4. Ben Hadad listened to king Asa, and sent the captains of his armies against the cities of Israel; and they struck Ijon, and Dan, and Abel Maim, and all the storage cities of Naphtali.
5. It happened, when Baasha heard of it, that he left off building Ramah, and let his work cease.
6. Then Asa the king took all Yehudah; and they carried away the stones of Ramah, and the timber of it, with which Baasha had built; and he built therewith Geba and Mizpah.
7. At that time Hanani the seer came to Asa king of Yehudah, and said to him, Because you have relied on the king of Aram, and have not relied on YHWH your God, therefore is the army of the king of Aram escaped out of your hand.
8. Weren't the Ethiopians and the Lubim a huge army, with chariots and horsemen exceeding many? yet, because you did rely on YHWH, he delivered them into your hand.
9. For the eyes of YHWH run back and forth throughout the whole earth, to show himself strong in the behalf of them whose heart is perfect toward him. Herein you have done foolishly; for from henceforth you shall have wars.
10. Then Asa was angry with the seer, and put him in the prison; for he was in a rage with him because of this thing. Asa oppressed some of the people at the same time.
11. Behold, the acts of Asa, first and last, behold, they are written in the book of the kings of Yehudah and Israel.
12. In the thirty-ninth year of his reign Asa was diseased in his feet; his disease was exceeding great: yet in his disease he didn't seek YHWH, but to the physicians.
13. Asa slept with his fathers, and died in the one and fortieth year of his reign.
14. They buried him in his own tombs, which he had hewn out for himself in the city of Dawid, and laid him in the bed which was filled with sweet odors and various kinds [of spices] prepared by the perfumers' art: and they made a very great burning for him.

2 Chronicles 17
1. Yehoshafat his son reigned in his place, and strengthened himself against Israel.
2. He placed forces in all the fortified cities of Yehudah, and set garrisons in the land of Yehudah, and in the cities of Efrayim, which Asa his father had taken.
3. YHWH was with Yehoshafat, because he walked in the first ways of his father Dawid, and didn't seek the Baals,
4. but sought to the God of his father, and walked in his commandments, and not after the doings of Israel.
5. Therefore YHWH established the kingdom in his hand; and all Yehudah brought to Yehoshafat tribute; and he had riches and honor in abundance.
6. His heart was lifted up in the ways of YHWH: and furthermore he took away the high places and the Asherim out of Yehudah.
7. Also in the third year of his reign he sent his princes, even Ben Hail, and Obadiah, and Zekharyah, and Nethanel, and Micaiah, to teach in the cities of Yehudah;
8. and with them the Levites, even Shemaiah, and Nethaniah, and Zebadiah, and Asahel, and Shemiramoth, and Jehonathan, and Adonijah, and Tobijah, and Tobadonijah, the Levites; and with them Elishama and Jehoram, the priests.
9. They taught in Yehudah, having the book of the law of YHWH with them; and they went about throughout all the cities of Yehudah, and taught among the people.
10. Reverence for YHWH fell on all the kingdoms of the lands that were round about Yehudah, so that they made no war against Yehoshafat.
11. Some of the Philistines brought Yehoshafat presents, and silver for tribute; the Arabians also brought him flocks, seven thousand and seven hundred rams, and seven thousand and seven hundred male goats.
12. Yehoshafat grew great exceedingly; and he built in Yehudah castles and cities of store.
13. He had many works in the cities of Yehudah; and men of war, mighty men of valor, in Yerushalayim.
14. This was the numbering of them according to their fathers' houses: Of Yehudah, the captains of thousands: Adnah the captain, and with him mighty men of valor three hundred thousand;
15. and next to him Jehohanan the captain, and with him two hundred eighty thousand;
16. and next to him Amasiah the son of Zichri, who willingly offered himself to YHWH; and with him two hundred thousand mighty men of valor.
17. Of Binyamin: Eliada a mighty man of valor, and with him two hundred thousand armed with bow and shield;
18. and next to him Jehozabad and with him one hundred eighty thousand ready prepared for war.
19. These were those who waited on the king, besides those whom the king put in the fortified cities throughout all Yehudah.

2 Chronicles 18
1. Now Yehoshafat had riches and honor in abundance; and he joined affinity with Achav.
2. After certain years he went down to Achav to Shomron. Achav killed sheep and oxen for him in abundance, and for the people who were with him, and moved him to go up [with him] to Ramoth Gilead.
3. Achav king of Israel said to Yehoshafat king of Yehudah, Will you go with me to Ramoth Gilead? He answered him, I am as you are, and my people as your people; and [we will be] with you in the war.
4. Yehoshafat said to the king of Israel, Please inquire first for the word of YHWH.
5. Then the king of Israel gathered the prophets together, four hundred men, and said to them, Shall we go to Ramoth Gilead to battle, or shall I forbear? They said, Go up; for Elohim will deliver it into the hand of the king.
6. But Yehoshafat said, Isn't there here a prophet of YHWH besides, that we may inquire of him?
7. The king of Israel said to Yehoshafat, There is yet one man by whom we may inquire of YHWH: but I hate him; for he never prophesies good concerning me, but always brokenness: the same is Micaiah the son of Imla. Yehoshafat said, Don't let the king say so.
8. Then the king of Israel called an officer, and said, Get quickly Micaiah the son of Imla.
9. Now the king of Israel and Yehoshafat the king of Yehudah sat each on his throne, arrayed in their robes, and they were sitting in an open place at the entrance of the gate of Shomron; and all the prophets were prophesying before them.
10. Tzidkiyahu the son of Chenaanah made him horns of iron, and said, Thus says YHWH, With these shall you push the Syrians, until they be consumed.
11. All the prophets prophesied so, saying, Go up to Ramoth Gilead, and prosper; for YHWH will deliver it into the hand of the king.
12. The messenger who went to call Micaiah spoke to him, saying, Behold, the words of the prophets [declare] good to the king with one mouth: let your word therefore, Please be like one of theirs, and speak you good.
13. Micaiah said, As YHWH lives, what my God says, that will I speak.
14. When he was come to the king, the king said to him, Micaiah, shall we go to Ramoth Gilead to battle, or shall I forbear? He said, Go up, and prosper; and they shall be delivered into your hand.
15. The king said to him, How many times shall I adjure you that you speak to me nothing but the truth in the name of YHWH?
16. He said, I saw all Israel scattered on the mountains, as sheep that have no shepherd: and YHWH said, These have no master; let them return everyone to their house in peace.
17. The king of Israel said to Yehoshafat, Didn't I tell you that he would not prophesy good concerning me, but brokenness?
18. [Micaiah] said, "Therefore hear you the word of YHWH: I saw YHWH sitting on his throne, and all the army of heavens standing on his right hand and on his left.
19. YHWH said, 'Who shall entice Achav king of Israel, that he may go up and fall at Ramoth Gilead?' One spoke saying after this manner, and another saying after that manner.
20. There came forth a spirit, and stood before YHWH, and said, 'I will entice him.' YHWH said to him, 'How?'
21. He said, 'I will go forth, and will be a lying spirit in the mouth of all his prophets.' He said, 'You shall entice him, and shall prevail also: go forth, and do so.'
22. Now therefore, behold, YHWH has put a lying spirit in the mouth of these your prophets; and YHWH has spoken harmfully concerning you."
23. Then Tzidkiyahu the son of Chenaanah came near, and struck Micaiah on the cheek, and said, Which way went the Ruach of YHWH from me to speak to you?
24. Micaiah said, Behold, you shall see on that day, when you shall go into an inner chamber to hide yourself.
25. The king of Israel said, Take Micaiah, and carry him back to Amon the governor of the city, and to Yoash the king's son;
26. and say, Thus says the king, Put this fellow in the prison, and feed him with bread of affliction and with water of affliction, until I return in peace.
27. Micaiah said, If you return at all in peace, YHWH has not spoken by me. He said, Hear, you peoples, all of you.
28. So the king of Israel and Yehoshafat the king of Yehudah went up to Ramoth Gilead.
29. The king of Israel said to Yehoshafat, I will disguise myself, and go into the battle; but put you on your robes. So the king of Israel disguised himself; and they went into the battle.
30. Now the king of Aram had commanded the captains of his chariots, saying, Fight neither with small nor great, save only with the king of Israel.
31. It happened, when the captains of the chariots saw Yehoshafat, that they said, It is the king of Israel. Therefore they turned about to fight against him: but Yehoshafat cried out, and YHWH helped him; and Elohim moved them [to depart] from him.
32. It happened, when the captains of the chariots saw that it was not the king of Israel, that they turned back from pursuing him.
33. A certain man drew his bow at a venture, and struck the king of Israel between the joints of the armor. Therefore he said to the driver of the chariot, Turn your hand, and carry me out of the army; for I am sore wounded.
34. The battle increased that day: however the king of Israel stayed himself up in his chariot against the Syrians until the even; and about the time of the going down of the sun he died.

2 Chronicles 19
1. Yehoshafat the king of Yehudah returned to his house in peace to Yerushalayim.
2. Yehu the son of Hanani the seer went out to meet him, and said to king Yehoshafat, Should you help the wicked, and love those who hate YHWH? for this thing wrath is on you from before YHWH.
3. Nevertheless there are good things found in you, in that you have put away the Asheroth out of the land, and have set your heart to seek Elohim.
4. Yehoshafat lived at Yerushalayim: and he went out again among the people from Be'er Sheva to the hill country of Efrayim, and brought them back to YHWH, the God of their fathers.
5. He set judges in the land throughout all the fortified cities of Yehudah, city by city,
6. and said to the judges, Consider what you do: for you don't judge for man, but for YHWH; and [he is] with you in the judgment.
7. Now therefore let reverence for YHWH be on you; take heed and do it: for there is no iniquity with YHWH our God, nor respect of persons, nor taking of bribes.
8. Moreover in Yerushalayim did Yehoshafat set of the Levites and the priests, and of the heads of the fathers' [houses] of Israel, for the judgment of YHWH, and for controversies. They returned to Yerushalayim.
9. He charged them, saying, Thus shall you do in reverence for YHWH, faithfully, and with a perfect heart.
10. Whenever any controversy shall come to you from your brothers who dwell in their cities, between blood and blood, between law and commandment, statutes and ordinances, you shall warn them, that they not be guilty towards YHWH, and so wrath come on you and on your brothers: this do, and you shall not be guilty.
11. Behold, Amariah the chief priest is over you in all matters of YHWH; and Zebadiah the son of Ishmael, the ruler of the house of Yehudah, in all the king's matters: also the Levites shall be officers before you. Deal courageously, and YHWH be with the good.

2 Chronicles 20
1. It happened after this, that the children of Moab, and the children of Ammon, and with them some of the Ammonites, came against Yehoshafat to battle.
2. Then there came some who told Yehoshafat, saying, There comes a great multitude against you from beyond the sea from Aram; and behold, they are in Hazazon Tamar (the same is En Gedi).
3. Yehoshafat feared, and set himself to seek to YHWH; and he proclaimed a fast throughout all Yehudah.
4. Yehudah gathered themselves together, to seek [help] of YHWH: even out of all the cities of Yehudah they came to seek YHWH.
5. Yehoshafat stood in the assembly of Yehudah and Yerushalayim, in the house of YHWH, before the new court;
6. and he said, YHWH, the God of our fathers, aren't you Elohim in heavens? and aren't you ruler over all the kingdoms of the nations? and in your hand is power and might, so that none is able to withstand you.
7. Did not you, our God, drive out the inhabitants of this land before your people Israel, and give it to the seed of Avraham your friend forever?
8. They lived therein, and have built you a sanctuary therein for your name, saying,
9. If brokenness come on us, the sword, judgment, or pestilence, or famine, we will stand before this house, and before you, (for your name is in this house), and cry to you in our affliction, and you will hear and save.
10. Now, behold, the children of Ammon and Moab and Mount Seir, whom you would not let Israel invade, when they came out of the land of Mitzrayim, but they turned aside from them, and didn't destroy them;
11. behold, how they reward us, to come to cast us out of your possession, which you have given us to inherit.
12. our God, will you not judge them? for we have no might against this great company that comes against us; neither know we what to do: but our eyes are on you.
13. All Yehudah stood before YHWH, with their little ones, their wives, and their children.
14. Then on Jahaziel the son of Zekharyah, the son of Benayahu, the son of Jeiel, the son of Mattaniah, the Levite, of the sons of Asaph, came the Ruach of YHWH in the midst of the assembly;
15. and he said, Listen you, all Yehudah, and you inhabitants of Yerushalayim, and you king Yehoshafat: Thus says YHWH to you, Don't be afraid you, neither be dismayed by reason of this great multitude; for the battle is not yours, but Elohim's.
16. Tomorrow go you down against them: behold, they come up by the ascent of Ziz; and you shall find them at the end of the valley, before the wilderness of Jeruel.
17. You shall not need to fight in this [battle]: set yourselves, stand you still, and see the salvation of YHWH with you, O Yehudah and Yerushalayim; don't be afraid, nor be dismayed: tomorrow go out against them: for YHWH is with you.
18. Yehoshafat bowed his head with his face to the ground; and all Yehudah and the inhabitants of Yerushalayim fell down before YHWH, worshipping YHWH.
19. The Levites, of the children of the Kohathites and of the children of the Korahites, stood up to praise YHWH, the God of Israel, with an exceeding loud voice.
20. They rose early in the morning, and went forth into the wilderness of Tekoa: and as they went forth, Yehoshafat stood and said, Hear me, Yehudah, and you inhabitants of Yerushalayim: believe in YHWH your God, so shall you be established; believe his prophets, so shall you prosper.
21. When he had taken counsel with the people, he appointed those who should sing to YHWH, and give praise in holy array, as they went out before the army, and say, Give thanks to YHWH; for his loving kindness endures forever.
22. When they began to sing and to praise, YHWH set ambushers against the children of Ammon, Moab, and Mount Seir, who had come against Yehudah; and they were struck.
23. For the children of Ammon and Moab stood up against the inhabitants of Mount Seir, utterly to kill and destroy them: and when they had made an end of the inhabitants of Seir, everyone helped to destroy another.
24. When Yehudah came to the place overlooking the wilderness, they looked at the multitude; and behold, they were dead bodies fallen to the earth, and there were none who escaped.
25. When Yehoshafat and his people came to take the spoil of them, they found among them in abundance both riches and dead bodies, and precious jewels, which they stripped off for themselves, more than they could carry away: and they were three days in taking the spoil, it was so much.
26. On the fourth day they assembled themselves in the valley of Beracah; for there they blessed YHWH: therefore the name of that place was called The valley of Beracah to this day.
27. Then they returned, everyone of Yehudah and Yerushalayim, and Yehoshafat in the forefront of them, to go again to Yerushalayim with joy; for YHWH had made them to rejoice over their enemies.
28. They came to Yerushalayim with stringed instruments and harps and trumpets to the house of YHWH.
29. Reverence for God was on all the kingdoms of the countries, when they heard that YHWH fought against the enemies of Israel.
30. So the realm of Yehoshafat was quiet; for his God gave him rest round about.
31. Yehoshafat reigned over Yehudah: he was thirty-five years old when he began to reign; and he reigned twenty-five years in Yerushalayim: and his mother's name was Azubah the daughter of Shilhi.
32. He walked in the way of Asa his father, and didn't turn aside from it, doing that which was right in the eyes of YHWH.
33. However the high places were not taken away; neither as yet had the people set their hearts to the God of their fathers.
34. Now the rest of the acts of Yehoshafat, first and last, behold, they are written in the history of Yehu the son of Hanani, which is inserted in the book of the kings of Israel.
35. After this did Yehoshafat king of Yehudah join himself with Ahaziah king of Israel; the same did very wickedly:
36. and he joined himself with him to make ships to go to Tarshish; and they made the ships in Ezion Geber.
37. Then Eliezer the son of Dodavahu of Mareshah prophesied against Yehoshafat, saying, Because you have joined yourself with Ahaziah, YHWH has destroyed your works. The ships were broken, so that they were not able to go to Tarshish.

2 Chronicles 21
1. Yehoshafat slept with his fathers, and was buried with his fathers in the city of Dawid: and Jehoram his son reigned in his place.
2. He had brothers, the sons of Yehoshafat: Azaryah, and Jehiel, and Zekharyah, and Azaryah, and Michael, and Shephatiah; all these were the sons of Yehoshafat king of Israel.
3. Their father gave them great gifts, of silver, and of gold, and of precious things, with fortified cities in Yehudah: but the kingdom gave he to Jehoram, because he was the firstborn.
4. Now when Jehoram was risen up over the kingdom of his father, and had strengthened himself, he killed all his brothers with the sword, and various also of the princes of Israel.
5. Jehoram was thirty-two years old when he began to reign; and he reigned eight years in Yerushalayim.
6. He walked in the way of the kings of Israel, as did the house of Achav; for he had the daughter of Achav as wife: and he did what was broken in the sight of YHWH.
7. However YHWH would not destroy the house of Dawid, because of the covenant that he had made with Dawid, and as he promised to give a lamp to him and to his children always.
8. In his days Edom revolted from under the hand of Yehudah, and made a king over themselves.
9. Then Jehoram passed over with his captains, and all his chariots with him: and he rose up by night, and struck the Edomites who surrounded him, along with the captains of the chariots.
10. So Edom revolted from under the hand of Yehudah to this day: then did Libnah revolt at the same time from under his hand, because he had forsaken YHWH, the God of his fathers.
11. Moreover he made high places in the mountains of Yehudah, and made the inhabitants of Yerushalayim to play the prostitute, and led Yehudah astray.
12. There came a writing to him from Eliyahu the prophet, saying, Thus says YHWH, the God of Dawid your father, Because you have not walked in the ways of Yehoshafat your father, nor in the ways of Asa king of Yehudah,
13. but have walked in the way of the kings of Israel, and have made Yehudah and the inhabitants of Yerushalayim to play the prostitute, like as the house of Achav did, and also have slain your brothers of your father's house, who were better than yourself:
14. behold, YHWH will strike with a great plague your people, and your children, and your wives, and all your substance;
15. and you shall have great sickness by disease of your bowels, until your bowels fall out by reason of the sickness, day by day.
16. YHWH stirred up against Jehoram the spirit of the Philistines, and of the Arabians who are beside the Ethiopians:
17. and they came up against Yehudah, and broke into it, and carried away all the substance that was found in the king's house, and his sons also, and his wives; so that there was never a son left him, save Jehoahaz, the youngest of his sons.
18. After all this YHWH struck him in his bowels with an incurable disease.
19. It happened, in process of time, at the end of two years, that his bowels fell out by reason of his sickness, and he died of sore diseases. His people made no burning for him, like the burning of his fathers.
20. Thirty-two years old was he when he began to reign, and he reigned in Yerushalayim eight years: and he departed without being desired; and they buried him in the city of Dawid, but not in the tombs of the kings.

2 Chronicles 22
1. The inhabitants of Yerushalayim made Ahaziah his youngest son king in his place; for the band of people who came with the Arabians to the camp had slain all the eldest. So Ahaziah the son of Jehoram king of Yehudah reigned.
2. Forty-two years old was Ahaziah when he began to reign; and he reigned one year in Yerushalayim: and his mother's name was Athaliah the daughter of Omri.
3. He also walked in the ways of the house of Achav; for his mother was his counselor to do wickedly.
4. He did what was broken in the sight of YHWH, as did the house of Achav; for they were his counselors after the death of his father, to his destruction.
5. He walked also after their counsel, and went with Jehoram the son of Achav king of Israel to war against Hazael king of Aram at Ramoth Gilead: and the Syrians wounded Joram.
6. He returned to be healed in Jezreel of the wounds which they had given him at Ramah, when he fought against Hazael king of Aram. Azaryah the son of Jehoram king of Yehudah went down to see Jehoram the son of Achav in Jezreel, because he was sick.
7. Now the destruction of Ahaziah was of Elohim, in that he went to Joram: for when he was come, he went out with Jehoram against Yehu the son of Nimshi, whom YHWH had anointed to cut off the house of Achav.
8. It happened, when Yehu was executing judgment on the house of Achav, that he found the princes of Yehudah, and the sons of the brothers of Ahaziah, ministering to Ahaziah, and killed them.
9. He sought Ahaziah, and they caught him (now he was hiding in Shomron), and they brought him to Yehu, and killed him; and they buried him, for they said, He is the son of Yehoshafat, who sought YHWH with all his heart. The house of Ahaziah had no power to hold the kingdom.
10. Now when Athaliah the mother of Ahaziah saw that her son was dead, she arose and destroyed all the royal seed of the house of Yehudah.
11. But Jehoshabeath, the daughter of the king, took Yoash the son of Ahaziah, and stole him away from among the king's sons who were slain, and put him and his nurse in the bedchamber. So Jehoshabeath, the daughter of king Jehoram, the wife of Yehoyada the priest (for she was the sister of Ahaziah), hid him from Athaliah, so that she didn't kill him.
12. He was with them hid in the house of Elohim six years: and Athaliah reigned over the land.

2 Chronicles 23
1. In the seventh year Yehoyada strengthened himself, and took the captains of hundreds, Azaryah the son of Jeroham, and Ishmael the son of Jehohanan, and Azaryah the son of Obed, and Maaseiah the son of Adaiah, and Elishaphat the son of Zichri, into covenant with him.
2. They went about in Yehudah, and gathered the Levites out of all the cities of Yehudah, and the heads of fathers' [houses] of Israel, and they came to Yerushalayim.
3. All the assembly made a covenant with the king in the house of Elohim. He said to them, Behold, the king's son shall reign, as YHWH has spoken concerning the sons of Dawid.
4. This is the thing that you shall do: a third part of you, who come in on the Sabbath, of the priests and of the Levites, shall be porters of the thresholds;
5. and a third part shall be at the king's house; and a third part at the gate of the foundation: and all the people shall be in the courts of the house of YHWH.
6. But let none come into the house of YHWH, save the priests, and those who minister of the Levites; they shall come in, for they are holy: but all the people shall keep the charge of YHWH.
7. The Levites shall compass the king round about, everyone with their weapons in their hand; and whoever comes into the house, let him be slain: and be you with the king when they come in, and when they go out.
8. So the Levites and all Yehudah did according to all that Yehoyada the priest commanded: and they took everyone their men, those who were to come in on the Sabbath; with those who were to go out on the Sabbath; for Yehoyada the priest didn't dismiss the shift.
9. Yehoyada the priest delivered to the captains of hundreds the spears, and bucklers, and shields, that had been king Dawid's, which were in the house of Elohim.
10. They set all the people, everyone with their weapon in their hand, from the right side of the house to the left side of the house, along by the altar and the house, by the king round about.
11. Then they brought out the king's son, and put the crown on him, and [gave him] the testimony, and made him king: and Yehoyada and his sons anointed him; and they said, [Long] live the king.
12. When Athaliah heard the noise of the people running and praising the king, she came to the people into the house of YHWH:
13. and she looked, and, behold, the king stood by his pillar at the entrance, and the captains and the trumpets by the king; and all the people of the land rejoiced, and blew trumpets; the singers also [played] on instruments of music, and led the singing of praise. Then Athaliah tore her clothes, and said, Treason! treason!
14. Yehoyada the priest brought out the captains of hundreds who were set over the army, and said to them, Have her forth between the ranks; and whoever follows her, let him be slain with the sword: for the priest said, Don't kill her in the house of YHWH.
15. So they made way for her; and she went to the entrance of the horse gate to the king's house: and they killed her there.
16. Yehoyada made a covenant between himself, and all the people, and the king, that they should be YHWH's people.
17. All the people went to the house of Baal, and broke it down, and broke his altars and his images in pieces, and killed Mattan the priest of Baal before the altars.
18. Yehoyada appointed the officers of the house of YHWH under the hand of the priests the Levites, whom Dawid had distributed in the house of YHWH, to offer the burnt offerings of YHWH, as it is written in the law of Moshe, with rejoicing and with singing, according to the order of Dawid.
19. They set the porters at the gates of the house of YHWH, that no one who was unclean in anything should enter in.
20. He took the captains of hundreds, and the nobles, and the governors of the people, and all the people of the land, and brought down the king from the house of YHWH: and they came through the upper gate to the king's house, and set the king on the throne of the kingdom.
21. So all the people of the land rejoiced, and the city was quiet. Athaliah they had slain with the sword.

2 Chronicles 24
1. Yoash was seven years old when he began to reign; and he reigned forty years in Yerushalayim: and his mother's name was Zibiah, of Be'er Sheva.
2. Yoash did that which was right in the eyes of YHWH all the days of Yehoyada the priest.
3. Yehoyada took for him two wives; and he became the father of sons and daughters.
4. It happened after this, that Yoash was minded to restore the house of YHWH.
5. He gathered together the priests and the Levites, and said to them, Go out to the cities of Yehudah, and gather of all Israel money to repair the house of your God from year to year; and see that you hasten the matter. However the Levites didn't hurry.
6. The king called for Yehoyada the chief, and said to him, Why haven't you required of the Levites to bring in out of Yehudah and out of Yerushalayim the tax of Moshe the servant of YHWH, and of the assembly of Israel, for the tent of the testimony?
7. For the sons of Athaliah, that wicked woman, had broken up the house of Elohim; and also all the dedicated things of the house of YHWH did they bestow on the Baals.
8. So the king commanded, and they made a chest, and set it outside at the gate of the house of YHWH.
9. They made a proclamation through Yehudah and Yerushalayim, to bring in for YHWH the tax that Moshe the servant of Elohim laid on Israel in the wilderness.
10. All the princes and all the people rejoiced, and brought in, and cast into the chest, until they had made an end.
11. It was so, that whenever the chest was brought to the king's officers by the hand of the Levites, and when they saw that there was much money, the king's scribe and the chief priest's officer came and emptied the chest, and took it, and carried it to its place again. Thus they did day by day, and gathered money in abundance.
12. The king and Yehoyada gave it to such as did the work of the service of the house of YHWH; and they hired masons and carpenters to restore the house of YHWH, and also such as worked iron and brass to repair the house of YHWH.
13. So the workmen worked, and the work of repairing went forward in their hands, and they set up the house of Elohim in its state, and strengthened it.
14. When they had made an end, they brought the rest of the money before the king and Yehoyada, of which were made vessels for the house of YHWH, even vessels with which to minister and to offer, and spoons, and vessels of gold and silver. They offered burnt offerings in the house of YHWH continually all the days of Yehoyada.
15. But Yehoyada grew old and was full of days, and he died; one hundred thirty years old was he when he died.
16. They buried him in the city of Dawid among the kings, because he had done good in Israel, and toward Elohim and his house.
17. Now after the death of Yehoyada came the princes of Yehudah, and made obeisance to the king. Then the king listened to them.
18. They forsook the house of YHWH, the God of their fathers, and served the Asherim and the idols: and wrath came on Yehudah and Yerushalayim for this their guiltiness.
19. Yet he sent prophets to them, to bring them again to YHWH; and they testified against them: but they would not give ear.
20. The Ruach of Elohim came on Zekharyah the son of Yehoyada the priest; and he stood above the people, and said to them, Thus says Elohim, Why disobey you the commandments of YHWH, so that you can't prosper? because you have forsaken YHWH, he has also forsaken you.
21. They conspired against him, and stoned him with stones at the commandment of the king in the court of the house of YHWH.
22. Thus Yoash the king didn't remember the kindness which Yehoyada his father had done to him, but killed his son. When he died, he said, YHWH look on it, and require it.
23. It happened at the end of the year, that the army of the Syrians came up against him: and they came to Yehudah and Yerushalayim, and destroyed all the princes of the people from among the people, and sent all the spoil of them to the king of Dammeseq.
24. For the army of the Syrians came with a small company of people; and YHWH delivered a very great army into their hand, because they had forsaken YHWH, the God of their fathers. So they executed judgment on Yoash.
25. When they were departed for him (for they left him very sick), his own servants conspired against him for the blood of the sons of Yehoyada the priest, and killed him on his bed, and he died; and they buried him in the city of Dawid, but they didn't bury him in the tombs of the kings.
26. These are those who conspired against him: Zabad the son of Shimeath the Ammonitess, and Jehozabad the son of Shimrith the Moabitess.
27. Now concerning his sons, and the greatness of the burdens [laid] on him, and the rebuilding of the house of Elohim, behold, they are written in the commentary of the book of the kings. Amaziah his son reigned in his place.

2 Chronicles 25
1. Amaziah was twenty-five years old when he began to reign; and he reigned twenty-nine years in Yerushalayim: and his mother's name was Jehoaddan, of Yerushalayim.
2. He did that which was right in the eyes of YHWH, but not with a perfect heart.
3. Now it happened, when the kingdom was established to him, that he killed his servants who had killed the king his father.
4. But he didn't put their children to death, but did according to that which is written in the law in the book of Moshe, as YHWH commanded, saying, The fathers shall not die for the children, neither shall the children die for the fathers; but everyone shall die for their own sin.
5. Moreover Amaziah gathered Yehudah together, and ordered them according to their fathers' houses, under captains of thousands and captains of hundreds, even all Yehudah and Binyamin: and he numbered them from twenty years old and upward, and found them three hundred thousand chosen men, able to go forth to war, who could handle spear and shield.
6. He hired also one hundred thousand mighty men of valor out of Israel for one hundred talents of silver.
7. But there came a person of Elohim to him, saying, O king, don't let the army of Israel go with you; for YHWH is not with Israel, [to wit], with all the children of Efrayim.
8. But if you will go, do [valiantly], be strong for the battle: Elohim will cast you down before the enemy; for Elohim has power to help, and to cast down.
9. Amaziah said to the person of Elohim, But what shall we do for the hundred talents which I have given to the army of Israel? The person of Elohim answered, YHWH is able to give you much more than this.
10. Then Amaziah separated them, [to wit], the army that had come to him out of Efrayim, to go home again: therefore their anger was greatly kindled against Yehudah, and they returned home in fierce anger.
11. Amaziah took courage, and led forth his people, and went to the Valley of Salt, and struck of the children of Seir ten thousand.
12. [other] ten thousand did the children of Yehudah carry away alive, and brought them to the top of the rock, and cast them down from the top of the rock, so that they all were broken in pieces.
13. But the men of the army whom Amaziah sent back, that they should not go with him to battle, fell on the cities of Yehudah, from Shomron even to Beth Horon, and struck of them three thousand, and took much spoil.
14. Now it happened, after that Amaziah was come from the slaughter of the Edomites, that he brought the gods of the children of Seir, and set them up to be his gods, and bowed down himself before them, and burned incense to them.
15. Therefore the anger of YHWH was kindled against Amaziah, and he sent to him a prophet, who said to him, Why have you sought after the gods of the people, which have not delivered their own people out of your hand?
16. It happened, as he talked with him, that [the king] said to him, Have we made you of the king's counsel? Stop! Why should you be struck down? Then the prophet stopped, and said, I know that Elohim has determined to destroy you, because you have done this, and have not listened to my counsel.
17. Then Amaziah king of Yehudah took advice, and sent to Yoash, the son of Jehoahaz the son of Yehu, king of Israel, saying, Come, let us look one another in the face.
18. Yoash king of Israel sent to Amaziah king of Yehudah, saying, The thistle that was in Levanon sent to the cedar that was in Levanon, saying, Give your daughter to my son as wife: and there passed by a wild animal that was in Levanon, and trod down the thistle.
19. You say, Behold, you have struck Edom; and your heart lifts you up to boast: abide now at home; why should you meddle to [your] hurt, that you should fall, even you, and Yehudah with you?
20. But Amaziah would not hear; for it was of Elohim, that he might deliver them into the hand [of their enemies], because they had sought after the gods of Edom.
21. So Yoash king of Israel went up; and he and Amaziah king of Yehudah looked one another in the face at Beth Shemesh, which belongs to Yehudah.
22. Yehudah was put to the worse before Israel; and they fled everyone to their tent.
23. Yoash king of Israel took Amaziah king of Yehudah, the son of Yoash the son of Jehoahaz, at Beth Shemesh, and brought him to Yerushalayim, and broke down the wall of Yerushalayim from the gate of Efrayim to the corner gate, four hundred cubits.
24. [He took] all the gold and silver, and all the vessels that were found in the house of Elohim with Obed-Edom, and the treasures of the king's house, the hostages also, and returned to Shomron.
25. Amaziah the son of Yoash king of Yehudah lived after the death of Yoash son of Jehoahaz king of Israel fifteen years.
26. Now the rest of the acts of Amaziah, first and last, behold, aren't they written in the book of the kings of Yehudah and Israel?
27. Now from the time that Amaziah did turn away from following YHWH they made a conspiracy against him in Yerushalayim; and he fled to Lachish: but they sent after him to Lachish, and killed him there.
28. They brought him on horses, and buried him with his fathers in the city of Yehudah.

2 Chronicles 26
1. All the people of Yehudah took Uzziah, who was sixteen years old, and made him king in the room of his father Amaziah.
2. He built Eloth, and restored it to Yehudah, after that the king slept with his fathers.
3. Sixteen years old was Uzziah when he began to reign; and he reigned fifty-two years in Yerushalayim: and his mother's name was Jechiliah, of Yerushalayim.
4. He did that which was right in the eyes of YHWH, according to all that his father Amaziah had done.
5. He set himself to seek Elohim in the days of Zekharyah, who had understanding in the vision of Elohim: and as long as he sought YHWH, Elohim made him to prosper.
6. He went forth and warred against the Philistines, and broke down the wall of Gath, and the wall of Jabneh, and the wall of Ashdod; and he built cities in [the country of] Ashdod, and among the Philistines.
7. Elohim helped him against the Philistines, and against the Arabians who lived in Gur Baal, and the Meunim.
8. The Ammonites gave tribute to Uzziah: and his name spread abroad even to the entrance of Mitzrayim; for he grew exceeding strong.
9. Moreover Uzziah built towers in Yerushalayim at the corner gate, and at the valley gate, and at the turning [of the wall], and fortified them.
10. He built towers in the wilderness, and hewed out many cisterns, for he had much livestock; in the lowland also, and in the plain: [and he had] farmers and vineyard keepers in the mountains and in the fruitful fields; for he loved farming.
11. Moreover Uzziah had an army of fighting men, who went out to war by bands, according to the number of their reckoning made by Jeiel the scribe and Maaseiah the officer, under the hand of Hananiah, one of the king's captains.
12. The whole number of the heads of fathers' [houses], even the mighty men of valor, was two thousand and six hundred.
13. Under their hand was an army, three hundred thousand and seven thousand and five hundred, who made war with mighty power, to help the king against the enemy.
14. Uzziah prepared for them, even for all the army, shields, and spears, and helmets, and coats of mail, and bows, and stones for slinging.
15. He made in Yerushalayim engines, invented by skillful men, to be on the towers and on the battlements, with which to shoot arrows and great stones. His name spread far abroad; for he was marvelously helped, until he was strong.
16. But when he was strong, his heart was lifted up, so that he did corruptly, and he trespassed against YHWH his God; for he went into the temple of YHWH to burn incense on the altar of incense.
17. Azaryah the priest went in after him, and with him eighty priests of YHWH, who were valiant men:
18. and they withstood Uzziah the king, and said to him, It pertains not to you, Uzziah, to burn incense to YHWH, but to the priests the sons of Aharon, who are consecrated to burn incense: go out of the sanctuary; for you have trespassed; neither shall it be for your honor from YHWH Elohim.
19. Then Uzziah was angry; and he had a censer in his hand to burn incense; and while he was angry with the priests, the leprosy broke forth in his forehead before the priests in the house of YHWH, beside the altar of incense.
20. Azaryah the chief priest, and all the priests, looked on him, and behold, he was leprous in his forehead, and they thrust him out quickly from there; yes, himself hurried also to go out, because YHWH had struck him.
21. Uzziah the king was a leper to the day of his death, and lived in a separate house, being a leper; for he was cut off from the house of YHWH: and Jotham his son was over the king's house, judging the people of the land.
22. Now the rest of the acts of Uzziah, first and last, did Yeshayahu the prophet, the son of Amoz, write.
23. So Uzziah slept with his fathers; and they buried him with his fathers in the field of burial which belonged to the kings; for they said, He is a leper: and Jotham his son reigned in his place.

2 Chronicles 27
1. Jotham was twenty-five years old when he began to reign; and he reigned sixteen years in Yerushalayim: and his mother's name was Jerushah the daughter of Tzadok.
2. He did that which was right in the eyes of YHWH, according to all that his father Uzziah had done: however he didn't enter into the temple of YHWH. The people did yet corruptly.
3. He built the upper gate of the house of YHWH, and on the wall of Ophel he built much.
4. Moreover he built cities in the hill country of Yehudah, and in the forests he built castles and towers.
5. He fought also with the king of the children of Ammon, and prevailed against them. The children of Ammon gave him the same year one hundred talents of silver, and ten thousand measures of wheat, and ten thousand of barley. So much did the children of Ammon render to him, in the second year also, and in the third.
6. So Jotham became mighty, because he ordered his ways before YHWH his God.
7. Now the rest of the acts of Jotham, and all his wars, and his ways, behold, they are written in the book of the kings of Israel and Yehudah.
8. He was five and twenty years old when he began to reign, and reigned sixteen years in Yerushalayim.
9. Jotham slept with his fathers, and they buried him in the city of Dawid: and Achaz his son reigned in his place.

2 Chronicles 28
1. Achaz was twenty years old when he began to reign; and he reigned sixteen years in Yerushalayim: and he didn't do that which was right in the eyes of YHWH, like Dawid his father;
2. but he walked in the ways of the kings of Israel, and made also molten images for the Baals.
3. Moreover he burnt incense in the valley of the son of Hinnom, and burnt his children in the fire, according to the abominations of the nations whom YHWH cast out before the children of Israel.
4. He sacrificed and burnt incense in the high places, and on the hills, and under every green tree.
5. Therefore YHWH his God delivered him into the hand of the king of Aram; and they struck him, and carried away of his a great multitude of captives, and brought them to Dammeseq. He was also delivered into the hand of the king of Israel, who struck him with a great slaughter.
6. For Pekah the son of Remaliah killed in Yehudah one hundred twenty thousand in one day, all of them valiant men; because they had forsaken YHWH, the God of their fathers.
7. Zichri, a mighty man of Efrayim, killed Maaseiah the king's son, and Azrikam the ruler of the house, and Elkanah who was next to the king.
8. The children of Israel carried away captive of their brothers two hundred thousand, women, sons, and daughters, and took also away much spoil from them, and brought the spoil to Shomron.
9. But a prophet of YHWH was there, whose name was Oded: and he went out to meet the army that came to Shomron, and said to them, Behold, because YHWH, the God of your fathers, was angry with Yehudah, he has delivered them into your hand, and you have slain them in a rage which has reached up to heavens.
10. Now you purpose to keep under the children of Yehudah and Yerushalayim for bondservants and bondmaids to you: [but] aren't there even with you trespasses of your own against YHWH your God?
11. Now hear me therefore, and send back the captives, that you have taken captive of your brothers; for the fierce wrath of YHWH is on you.
12. Then certain of the heads of the children of Efrayim, Azaryah the son of Johanan, Berechiah the son of Meshillemoth, and Jehizkiah the son of Shallum, and Amasa the son of Hadlai, stood up against those who came from the war,
13. and said to them, You shall not bring in the captives here: for you purpose that which will bring on us a trespass against YHWH, to add to our sins and to our trespass; for our trespass is great, and there is fierce wrath against Israel.
14. So the armed men left the captives and the spoil before the princes and all the assembly.
15. The people who have been mentioned by name rose up, and took the captives, and with the spoil clothed all who were naked among them, and arrayed them, and shod them, and gave them to eat and to drink, and anointed them, and carried all the feeble of them on donkeys, and brought them to Yericho, the city of palm trees, to their brothers: then they returned to Shomron.
16. At that time did king Achaz send to the kings of Ashur to help him.
17. For again the Edomites had come and struck Yehudah, and carried away captives.
18. The Philistines also had invaded the cities of the lowland, and of the South of Yehudah, and had taken Beth Shemesh, and Aijalon, and Gederoth, and Soco with the towns of it, and Timnah with the towns of it, Gimzo also and the towns of it: and they lived there.
19. For YHWH brought Yehudah low because of Achaz king of Israel; for he had dealt wantonly in Yehudah, and trespassed severely against YHWH.
20. Tilgath Pilneser king of Ashur came to him, and distressed him, but didn't strengthen him.
21. For Achaz took away a portion out of the house of YHWH, and out of the house of the king and of the princes, and gave it to the king of Ashur: but it didn't help him.
22. In the time of his distress did he trespass yet more against YHWH, this same king Achaz.
23. For he sacrificed to the gods of Dammeseq, which struck him; and he said, Because the gods of the kings of Aram helped them, [therefore] will I sacrifice to them, that they may help me. But they were the ruin of him, and of all Israel.
24. Achaz gathered together the vessels of the house of Elohim, and cut in pieces the vessels of the house of Elohim, and shut up the doors of the house of YHWH; and he made him altars in every corner of Yerushalayim.
25. In every city of Yehudah he made high places to burn incense to other gods, and provoked to anger YHWH, the God of his fathers.
26. Now the rest of his acts, and all his ways, first and last, behold, they are written in the book of the kings of Yehudah and Israel.
27. Achaz slept with his fathers, and they buried him in the city, even in Yerushalayim; for they didn't bring him into the tombs of the kings of Israel: and Chizkiyahu his son reigned in his place.

2 Chronicles 29
1. Chizkiyahu began to reign when he was twenty-five years old; and he reigned twenty-nine years in Yerushalayim: and his mother's name was Abijah, the daughter of Zekharyah.
2. He did that which was right in the eyes of YHWH, according to all that Dawid his father had done.
3. He in the first year of his reign, in the first month, opened the doors of the house of YHWH, and repaired them.
4. He brought in the priests and the Levites, and gathered them together into the broad place on the east,
5. and said to them, Hear me, you Levites; now sanctify yourselves, and sanctify the house of YHWH, the God of your fathers, and carry forth the filthiness out of the holy place.
6. For our fathers have trespassed, and done what was broken in the sight of YHWH our God, and have forsaken him, and have turned away their faces from the habitation of YHWH, and turned their backs.
7. Also they have shut up the doors of the porch, and put out the lamps, and have not burned incense nor offered burnt offerings in the holy place to the God of Israel.
8. Therefore the wrath of YHWH was on Yehudah and Yerushalayim, and he has delivered them to be tossed back and forth, to be an astonishment, and a hissing, as you see with your eyes.
9. For, behold, our fathers have fallen by the sword, and our sons and our daughters and our wives are in captivity for this.
10. Now it is in my heart to make a covenant with YHWH, the God of Israel, that his fierce anger may turn away from us.
11. My sons, don't be negligent now; for YHWH has chosen you to stand before him, to minister to him, and that you should be his ministers, and burn incense.
12. Then the Levites arose, Mahath, the son of Amasai, and Joel the son of Azaryah, of the sons of the Kohathites; and of the sons of Merari, Kish the son of Abdi, and Azaryah the son of Jehallelel; and of the Gershonites, Joah the son of Zimmah, and Eden the son of Joah;
13. and of the sons of Elizaphan, Shimri and Jeuel; and of the sons of Asaph, Zekharyah and Mattaniah;
14. and of the sons of Heman, Jehuel and Shimei; and of the sons of Jeduthun, Shemaiah and Uzziel.
15. They gathered their brothers, and sanctified themselves, and went in, according to the commandment of the king by the words of YHWH, to cleanse the house of YHWH.
16. The priests went in to the inner part of the house of YHWH, to cleanse it, and brought out all the uncleanness that they found in the temple of YHWH into the court of the house of YHWH. The Levites took it, to carry it out abroad to the brook Kidron.
17. Now they began on the first [day] of the first month to sanctify, and on the eighth day of the month came they to the porch of YHWH; and they sanctified the house of YHWH in eight days: and on the sixteenth day of the first month they made an end.
18. Then they went in to Chizkiyahu the king within [the palace], and said, We have cleansed all the house of YHWH, and the altar of burnt offering, with all the vessels of it, and the table of show bread, with all the vessels of it.
19. Moreover all the vessels, which king Achaz in his reign did cast away when he trespassed, have we prepared and sanctified; and behold, they are before the altar of YHWH.
20. Then Chizkiyahu the king arose early, and gathered the princes of the city, and went up to the house of YHWH.
21. They brought seven bulls, and seven rams, and seven lambs, and seven male goats, for a sin offering for the kingdom and for the sanctuary and for Yehudah. He commanded the priests the sons of Aharon to offer them on the altar of YHWH.
22. So they killed the bulls, and the priests received the blood, and sprinkled it on the altar: and they killed the rams, and sprinkled the blood on the altar: they killed also the lambs, and sprinkled the blood on the altar.
23. They brought near the male goats for the sin offering before the king and the assembly; and they laid their hands on them:
24. and the priests killed them, and they made a sin offering with their blood on the altar, to make atonement for all Israel; for the king commanded [that] the burnt offering and the sin offering [should be made] for all Israel.
25. He set the Levites in the house of YHWH with cymbals, with stringed instruments, and with harps, according to the commandment of Dawid, and of Gad the king's seer, and Natan the prophet; for the commandment was of YHWH by his prophets.
26. The Levites stood with the instruments of Dawid, and the priests with the trumpets.
27. Chizkiyahu commanded to offer the burnt offering on the altar. When the burnt offering began, the song of YHWH began also, and the trumpets, together with the instruments of Dawid king of Israel.
28. All the assembly worshiped, and the singers sang, and the trumpeters sounded; all this [continued] until the burnt offering was finished.
29. When they had made an end of offering, the king and all who were present with him bowed themselves and worshiped.
30. Moreover Chizkiyahu the king and the princes commanded the Levites to sing praises to YHWH with the words of Dawid, and of Asaph the seer. They sang praises with gladness, and they bowed their heads and worshiped.
31. Then Chizkiyahu answered, Now you have consecrated yourselves to YHWH; come near and bring sacrifices and thank offerings into the house of YHWH. The assembly brought in sacrifices and thank offerings; and as many as were of a willing heart [brought] burnt offerings.
32. The number of the burnt offerings which the assembly brought was seventy bulls, one hundred rams, and two hundred lambs: all these were for a burnt offering to YHWH.
33. The consecrated things were six hundred oxen and three thousand sheep.
34. But the priests were too few, so that they could not flay all the burnt offerings: therefore their brothers the Levites helped them, until the work was ended, and until the priests had sanctified themselves; for the Levites were more upright in heart to sanctify themselves than the priests.
35. Also the burnt offerings were in abundance, with the fat of the peace offerings, and with the drink offerings for every burnt offering. So the service of the house of YHWH was set in order.
36. Chizkiyahu rejoiced, and all the people, because of that which Elohim had prepared for the people: for the thing was done suddenly.

2 Chronicles 30
1. Chizkiyahu sent to all Israel and Yehudah, and wrote letters also to Efrayim and Menashe, that they should come to the house of YHWH at Yerushalayim, to keep the Passover to YHWH, the God of Israel.
2. For the king had taken counsel, and his princes, and all the assembly in Yerushalayim, to keep the Passover in the second month.
3. For they could not keep it at that time, because the priests had not sanctified themselves in sufficient number, neither had the people gathered themselves together to Yerushalayim.
4. The thing was right in the eyes of the king and of all the assembly.
5. So they established a decree to make proclamation throughout all Israel, from Be'er Sheva even to Dan, that they should come to keep the Passover to YHWH, the God of Israel, at Yerushalayim: for they had not kept it in great numbers in such sort as it is written.
6. So the posts went with the letters from the king and his princes throughout all Israel and Yehudah, and according to the commandment of the king, saying, You children of Israel, turn again to YHWH, the God of Avraham, Yitzhak, and Israel, that he may return to the remnant that have escaped of you out of the hand of the kings of Ashur.
7. Don't be you like your fathers, and like your brothers, who trespassed against YHWH, the God of their fathers, so that he gave them up to desolation, as you see.
8. Now don't you be stiff-necked, as your fathers were; but yield yourselves to YHWH, and enter into his sanctuary, which he has sanctified forever, and serve YHWH your God, that his fierce anger may turn away from you.
9. For if you turn again to YHWH, your brothers and your children shall find compassion before those who led them captive, and shall come again into this land: for YHWH your God is gracious and merciful, and will not turn away his face from you, if you return to him.
10. So the posts passed from city to city through the country of Efrayim and Menashe, even to Zevulun: but they ridiculed them, and mocked them.
11. Nevertheless certain men of Asher and Menashe and of Zevulun humbled themselves, and came to Yerushalayim.
12. Also on Yehudah came the hand of Elohim to give them one heart, to do the commandment of the king and of the princes by the word of YHWH.
13. There assembled at Yerushalayim much people to keep the feast of unleavened bread in the second month, a very great assembly.
14. They arose and took away the altars that were in Yerushalayim, and all the altars for incense took they away, and cast them into the brook Kidron.
15. Then they killed the Passover on the fourteenth [day] of the second month: and the priests and the Levites were ashamed, and sanctified themselves, and brought burnt offerings into the house of YHWH.
16. They stood in their place after their order, according to the law of Moshe the person of Elohim: the priests sprinkled the blood [which they received] of the hand of the Levites.
17. For there were many in the assembly who had not sanctified themselves: therefore the Levites had the charge of killing the Passovers for everyone who was not clean, to sanctify them to YHWH.
18. For a multitude of the people, even many of Efrayim and Menashe, Yissakhar and Zevulun, had not cleansed themselves, yet did they eat the Passover otherwise than it is written. For Chizkiyahu had prayed for them, saying, The good YHWH pardon everyone
19. who sets his heart to seek Elohim, YHWH, the God of his fathers, though not [cleansed] according to the purification of the sanctuary.
20. YHWH listened to Chizkiyahu, and healed the people.
21. The children of Israel who were present at Yerushalayim kept the feast of unleavened bread seven days with great gladness; and the Levites and the priests praised YHWH day by day, [singing] with loud instruments to YHWH.
22. Chizkiyahu spoke comfortably to all the Levites who had good understanding [in the service] of YHWH. So they ate throughout the feast for the seven days, offering sacrifices of peace offerings, and making confession to YHWH, the God of their fathers.
23. The whole assembly took counsel to keep other seven days; and they kept [other] seven days with gladness.
24. For Chizkiyahu king of Yehudah did give to the assembly for offerings one thousand bulls and seven thousand sheep; and the princes gave to the assembly a thousand bulls and ten thousand sheep: and a great number of priests sanctified themselves.
25. All the assembly of Yehudah, with the priests and the Levites, and all the assembly who came out of Israel, and the foreigners who came out of the land of Israel, and who lived in Yehudah, rejoiced.
26. So there was great joy in Yerushalayim; for since the time of Shlomo the son of Dawid king of Israel there was not the like in Yerushalayim.
27. Then the priests the Levites arose and blessed the people: and their voice was heard, and their prayer came up to his holy habitation, even to heavens.

2 Chronicles 31
1. Now when all this was finished, all Israel who were present went out to the cities of Yehudah, and broke in pieces the pillars, and hewed down the Asherim, and broke down the high places and the altars out of all Yehudah and Binyamin, in Efrayim also and Menashe, until they had destroyed them all. Then all the children of Israel returned, everyone to their possession, into their own cities.
2. Chizkiyahu appointed the divisions of the priests and the Levites after their divisions, everyone according to their service, both the priests and the Levites, for burnt offerings and for peace offerings, to minister, and to give thanks, and to praise in the gates of the camp of YHWH.
3. [He appointed] also the king's portion of his substance for the burnt offerings, [to wit], for the morning and evening burnt offerings, and the burnt offerings for the Sabbaths, and for the new moons, and for the set feasts, as it is written in the law of YHWH.
4. Moreover he commanded the people who lived in Yerushalayim to give the portion of the priests and the Levites, that they might give themselves to the law of YHWH.
5. As soon as the commandment came abroad, the children of Israel gave in abundance the first fruits of grain, new wine, and oil, and honey, and of all the increase of the field; and the tithe of all things brought they in abundantly.
6. The children of Israel and Yehudah, who lived in the cities of Yehudah, they also brought in the tithe of oxen and sheep, and the tithe of dedicated things which were consecrated to YHWH their God, and laid them by heaps.
7. In the third month they began to lay the foundation of the heaps, and finished them in the seventh month.
8. When Chizkiyahu and the princes came and saw the heaps, they blessed YHWH, and his people Israel.
9. Then Chizkiyahu questioned the priests and the Levites concerning the heaps.
10. Azaryah the chief priest, of the house of Tzadok, answered him and said, Since [the people] began to bring the offerings into the house of YHWH, we have eaten and had enough, and have left plenty: for YHWH has blessed his people; and that which is left is this great store.
11. Then Chizkiyahu commanded to prepare chambers in the house of YHWH; and they prepared them.
12. They brought in the offerings and the tithes and the dedicated things faithfully: and over them Conaniah the Levite was ruler, and Shimei his brother was second.
13. Jehiel, and Azaziah, and Nahath, and Asahel, and Jerimoth, and Jozabad, and Eliel, and Ismachiah, and Mahath, and Benayahu, were overseers under the hand of Conaniah and Shimei his brother, by the appointment of Chizkiyahu the king, and Azaryah the ruler of the house of Elohim.
14. Kore the son of Imnah the Levite, the porter at the east [gate], was over the freewill offerings of Elohim, to distribute the offerings of YHWH, and the most holy things.
15. Under him were Eden, and Miniamin, and Jeshua, and Shemaiah, Amariah, and Shecaniah, in the cities of the priests, in their office of trust, to give to their brothers by divisions, as well to the great as to the small:
16. besides those who were reckoned by genealogy of males, from three years old and upward, even everyone who entered into the house of YHWH, as the duty of every day required, for their service in their offices according to their divisions;
17. and those who were reckoned by genealogy of the priests by their fathers' houses, and the Levites from twenty years old and upward, in their offices by their divisions;
18. and those who were reckoned by genealogy of all their little ones, their wives, and their sons, and their daughters, through all the congregation: for in their office of trust they sanctified themselves in holiness.
19. Also for the sons of Aharon the priests, who were in the fields of the suburbs of their cities, in every city, there were people who were mentioned by name, to give portions to all the males among the priests, and to all who were reckoned by genealogy among the Levites.
20. Thus did Chizkiyahu throughout all Yehudah; and he worked that which was good and right and faithful before YHWH his God.
21. In every work that he began in the service of the house of Elohim, and in the law, and in the commandments, to seek his God, he did it with all his heart, and prospered.

2 Chronicles 32
1. After these things, and this faithfulness, Sennacherib king of Ashur came, and entered into Yehudah, and encamped against the fortified cities, and thought to win them for himself.
2. When Chizkiyahu saw that Sennacherib was come, and that he was purposed to fight against Yerushalayim,
3. he took counsel with his princes and his mighty men to stop the waters of the springs which were outside of the city; and they helped him.
4. So there was gathered much people together, and they stopped all the springs, and the brook that flowed through the midst of the land, saying, Why should the kings of Ashur come, and find much water?
5. He took courage, and built up all the wall that was broken down, and raised [it] up to the towers, and the other wall outside, and strengthened Millo [in] the city of Dawid, and made weapons and shields in abundance.
6. He set captains of war over the people, and gathered them together to him in the broad place at the gate of the city, and spoke comfortably to them, saying,
7. Be strong and of good courage, don't be afraid nor dismayed for the king of Ashur, nor for all the multitude who is with him; for there is a greater with us than with him:
8. with him is an arm of flesh; but with us is YHWH our God to help us, and to fight our battles. The people rested themselves on the words of Chizkiyahu king of Yehudah.
9. After this did Sennacherib king of Ashur send his servants to Yerushalayim, (now he was before Lachish, and all his power with him), to Chizkiyahu king of Yehudah, and to all Yehudah who were at Yerushalayim, saying,
10. Thus says Sennacherib king of Ashur, Whereon do you trust, that you abide the siege in Yerushalayim?
11. Does not Chizkiyahu persuade you, to give you over to die by famine and by thirst, saying, YHWH our God will deliver us out of the hand of the king of Ashur?
12. Has not the same Chizkiyahu taken away his high places and his altars, and commanded Yehudah and Yerushalayim, saying, You shall worship before one altar, and on it shall you burn incense?
13. Don't you know what I and my fathers have done to all the peoples of the lands? Were the gods of the nations of the lands in any wise able to deliver their land out of my hand?
14. Who was there among all the gods of those nations which my fathers utterly destroyed, that could deliver his people out of my hand, that your God should be able to deliver you out of my hand?
15. Now therefore don't let Chizkiyahu deceive you, nor persuade you after this manner, neither believe you him; for no god of any nation or kingdom was able to deliver his people out of my hand, and out of the hand of my fathers: how much less shall your God deliver you out of my hand?
16. His servants spoke yet more against YHWH Elohim, and against his servant Chizkiyahu.
17. He wrote also letters, to rail on YHWH, the God of Israel, and to speak against him, saying, As the gods of the nations of the lands, which have not delivered their people out of my hand, so shall the God of Chizkiyahu not deliver his people out of my hand.
18. They cried with a loud voice in the Jews' language to the people of Yerushalayim who were on the wall, to frighten them, and to trouble them; that they might take the city.
19. They spoke of the God of Yerushalayim, as of the gods of the peoples of the earth, which are the work of people's hands.
20. Chizkiyahu the king, and Yeshayahu the prophet the son of Amoz, prayed because of this, and cried to heavens.
21. YHWH sent an angel, who cut off all the mighty men of valor, and the leaders and captains, in the camp of the king of Ashur. So he returned with shame of face to his own land. When he was come into the house of his god, those who came forth from his own bowels killed him there with the sword.
22. Thus YHWH saved Chizkiyahu and the inhabitants of Yerushalayim from the hand of Sennacherib the king of Ashur, and from the hand of all [others], and guided them on every side.
23. Many brought gifts to YHWH to Yerushalayim, and precious things to Chizkiyahu king of Yehudah; so that he was exalted in the sight of all nations from thenceforth.
24. In those days Chizkiyahu was sick even to death: and he prayed to YHWH; and he spoke to him, and gave him a sign.
25. But Chizkiyahu didn't render again according to the benefit done to him; for his heart was lifted up: therefore there was wrath on him, and on Yehudah and Yerushalayim.
26. Notwithstanding Chizkiyahu humbled himself for the pride of his heart, both he and the inhabitants of Yerushalayim, so that the wrath of YHWH didn't come on them in the days of Chizkiyahu.
27. Chizkiyahu had exceeding much riches and honor: and he provided him treasuries for silver, and for gold, and for precious stones, and for spices, and for shields, and for all manner of goodly vessels;
28. storehouses also for the increase of grain and new wine and oil; and stalls for all manner of animals, and flocks in folds.
29. Moreover he provided him cities, and possessions of flocks and herds in abundance; for Elohim had given him very much substance.
30. This same Chizkiyahu also stopped the upper spring of the waters of Gihon, and brought them straight down on the west side of the city of Dawid. Chizkiyahu prospered in all his works.
31. However in [the business of] the ambassadors of the princes of Bavel, who sent to him to inquire of the wonder that was done in the land, Elohim left him, to try him, that he might know all that was in his heart.
32. Now the rest of the acts of Chizkiyahu, and his good deeds, behold, they are written in the vision of Yeshayahu the prophet the son of Amoz, in the book of the kings of Yehudah and Israel.
33. Chizkiyahu slept with his fathers, and they buried him in the ascent of the tombs of the sons of Dawid: and all Yehudah and the inhabitants of Yerushalayim did him honor at his death. Menashe his son reigned in his place.

2 Chronicles 33
1. Menashe was twelve years old when he began to reign; and he reigned fifty-five years in Yerushalayim.
2. He did what was broken in the sight of YHWH, after the abominations of the nations whom YHWH cast out before the children of Israel.
3. For he built again the high places which Chizkiyahu his father had broken down; and he reared up altars for the Baals, and made Asheroth, and worshiped all the army of the heavens, and served them.
4. He built altars in the house of YHWH, of which YHWH said, In Yerushalayim shall my name be forever.
5. He built altars for all the army of the heavens in the two courts of the house of YHWH.
6. He also made his children to pass through the fire in the valley of the son of Hinnom; and he practiced sorcery, and used enchantments, and practiced sorcery, and dealt with those who had familiar spirits, and with wizards: he worked much brokenness in the sight of YHWH, to provoke him to anger.
7. He set the engraved image of the idol, which he had made, in the house of Elohim, of which Elohim said to Dawid and to Shlomo his son, In this house, and in Yerushalayim, which I have chosen out of all the tribes of Israel, will I put my name forever:
8. neither will I any more remove the foot of Israel from off the land which I have appointed for your fathers, if only they will observe to do all that I have commanded them, even all the law and the statutes and the ordinances [given] by Moshe.
9. Menashe seduced Yehudah and the inhabitants of Yerushalayim, so that they did brokenness more than did the nations whom YHWH destroyed before the children of Israel.
10. YHWH spoke to Menashe, and to his people; but they gave no heed.
11. Therefore YHWH brought on them the captains of the army of the king of Ashur, who took Menashe in chains, and bound him with fetters, and carried him to Bavel.
12. When he was in distress, he begged YHWH his God, and humbled himself greatly before the God of his fathers.
13. He prayed to him; and he was entreated of him, and heard his supplication, and brought him again to Yerushalayim into his kingdom. Then Menashe knew that YHWH he was Elohim.
14. Now after this he built an outer wall to the city of Dawid, on the west side of Gihon, in the valley, even to the entrance at the fish gate; and he compassed Ophel about [with it], and raised it up to a very great height: and he put valiant captains in all the fortified cities of Yehudah.
15. He took away the foreign gods, and the idol out of the house of YHWH, and all the altars that he had built in the mountain of the house of YHWH, and in Yerushalayim, and cast them out of the city.
16. He built up the altar of YHWH, and offered thereon sacrifices of peace offerings and of thanksgiving, and commanded Yehudah to serve YHWH, the God of Israel.
17. Nevertheless the people sacrificed still in the high places, but only to YHWH their God.
18. Now the rest of the acts of Menashe, and his prayer to his God, and the words of the seers who spoke to him in the name of YHWH, the God of Israel, behold, they are written among the acts of the kings of Israel.
19. His prayer also, and how [Elohim] was entreated of him, and all his sin and his trespass, and the places in which he built high places, and set up the Asherim and the engraved images, before he humbled himself: behold, they are written in the history of Hozai.
20. So Menashe slept with his fathers, and they buried him in his own house: and Amon his son reigned in his place.
21. Amon was twenty-two years old when he began to reign; and he reigned two years in Yerushalayim.
22. He did what was broken in the sight of YHWH, as did Menashe his father; and Amon sacrificed to all the engraved images which Menashe his father had made, and served them.
23. He didn't humble himself before YHWH, as Menashe his father had humbled himself; but this same Amon trespassed more and more.
24. His servants conspired against him, and put him to death in his own house.
25. But the people of the land killed all those who had conspired against king Amon; and the people of the land made Yoshiyahu his son king in his place.

2 Chronicles 34
1. Yoshiyahu was eight years old when he began to reign; and he reigned thirty-one years in Yerushalayim.
2. He did that which was right in the eyes of YHWH, and walked in the ways of Dawid his father, and didn't turn aside to the right hand or to the left.
3. For in the eighth year of his reign, while he was yet young, he began to seek after the God of Dawid his father; and in the twelfth year he began to purge Yehudah and Yerushalayim from the high places, and the Asherim, and the engraved images, and the molten images.
4. They broke down the altars of the Baals in his presence; and the incense altars that were on high above them he hewed down; and the Asherim, and the engraved images, and the molten images, he broke in pieces, and made dust of them, and strewed it on the graves [of those] who had sacrificed to them.
5. He burnt the bones of the priests on their altars, and purged Yehudah and Yerushalayim.
6. [So did he] in the cities of Menashe and Efrayim and Shim'on, even to Naphtali, in their ruins round about.
7. He broke down the altars, and beat the Asherim and the engraved images into powder, and hewed down all the incense altars throughout all the land of Israel, and returned to Yerushalayim.
8. Now in the eighteenth year of his reign, when he had purged the land and the house, he sent Shaphan the son of Azaliah, and Maaseiah the governor of the city, and Joah the son of Joahaz the recorder, to repair the house of YHWH his God.
9. They came to Hilkiah the high priest, and delivered the money that was brought into the house of Elohim, which the Levites, the keepers of the threshold, had gathered of the hand of Menashe and Efrayim, and of all the remnant of Israel, and of all Yehudah and Binyamin, and of the inhabitants of Yerushalayim.
10. They delivered it into the hand of the workmen who had the oversight of the house of YHWH; and the workmen who labored in the house of YHWH gave it to mend and repair the house;
11. even to the carpenters and to the builders gave they it, to buy hewn stone, and timber for couplings, and to make beams for the houses which the kings of Yehudah had destroyed.
12. The men did the work faithfully: and the overseers of them were Jahath and Obadiah, the Levites, of the sons of Merari; and Zekharyah and Meshullam, of the sons of the Kohathites, to set it forward; and [others of] the Levites, all who were skillful with instruments of music.
13. Also they were over the bearers of burdens, and set forward all who did the work in every manner of service: and of the Levites there were scribes, and officers, and porters.
14. When they brought out the money that was brought into the house of YHWH, Hilkiah the priest found the book of the law of YHWH [given] by Moshe.
15. Hilkiah answered Shaphan the scribe, I have found the book of the law in the house of YHWH. Hilkiah delivered the book to Shaphan.
16. Shaphan carried the book to the king, and moreover brought back word to the king, saying, All that was committed to your servants, they are doing.
17. They have emptied out the money that was found in the house of YHWH, and have delivered it into the hand of the overseers, and into the hand of the workmen.
18. Shaphan the scribe told the king, saying, Hilkiah the priest has delivered me a book. Shaphan read therein before the king.
19. It happened, when the king had heard the words of the law, that he tore his clothes.
20. The king commanded Hilkiah, and Ahikam the son of Shaphan, and Abdon the son of Micah, and Shaphan the scribe, and Asaiah the king's servant, saying,
21. Go you, inquire of YHWH for me, and for those who are left in Israel and in Yehudah, concerning the words of the book that is found; for great is the wrath of YHWH that is poured out on us, because our fathers have not kept the word of YHWH, to do according to all that is written in this book.
22. So Hilkiah, and they whom the king [had commanded], went to Huldah the prophetess, the wife of Shallum the son of Tokhath, the son of Hasrah, keeper of the wardrobe; (now she lived in Yerushalayim in the second quarter;) and they spoke to her to that effect.
23. She said to them, Thus says YHWH, the God of Israel: Tell you the one who sent you to me,
24. Thus says YHWH, Behold, I will bring harm on this place, and on the inhabitants of it, even all the curses that are written in the book which they have read before the king of Yehudah.
25. Because they have forsaken me, and have burned incense to other gods, that they might provoke me to anger with all the works of their hands; therefore is my wrath poured out on this place, and it shall not be quenched.
26. But to the king of Yehudah, who sent you to inquire of YHWH, thus shall you tell him, Thus says YHWH, the God of Israel: As touching the words which you have heard,
27. because your heart was tender, and you did humble yourself before Elohim, when you heard his words against this place, and against the inhabitants of it, and have humbled yourself before me, and have torn your clothes, and wept before me; I also have heard you, says YHWH.
28. Behold, I will gather you to your fathers, and you shall be gathered to your grave in peace, neither shall your eyes see all the brokenness that I will bring on this place, and on the inhabitants of it. They brought back word to the king.
29. Then the king sent and gathered together all the elders of Yehudah and Yerushalayim.
30. The king went up to the house of YHWH, and all the people of Yehudah and the inhabitants of Yerushalayim, and the priests, and the Levites, and all the people, both great and small: and he read in their ears all the words of the book of the covenant that was found in the house of YHWH.
31. The king stood in his place, and made a covenant before YHWH, to walk after YHWH, and to keep his commandments, and his testimonies, and his statutes, with all his heart, and with all his soul, to perform the words of the covenant that were written in this book.
32. He caused all who were found in Yerushalayim and Binyamin to stand [to it]. The inhabitants of Yerushalayim did according to the covenant of Elohim, the God of their fathers.
33. Yoshiyahu took away all the abominations out of all the countries that pertained to the children of Israel, and made all who were found in Israel to serve, even to serve YHWH their God. All his days they didn't depart from following YHWH, the God of their fathers.

2 Chronicles 35
1. Yoshiyahu kept a Passover to YHWH in Yerushalayim: and they killed the Passover on the fourteenth [day] of the first month.
2. He set the priests in their offices, and encouraged them to the service of the house of YHWH.
3. He said to the Levites who taught all Israel, who were holy to YHWH, Put the holy ark in the house which Shlomo the son of Dawid king of Israel did build; there shall no more be a burden on your shoulders: now serve YHWH your God, and his people Israel.
4. Prepare yourselves after your fathers' houses by your divisions, according to the writing of Dawid king of Israel, and according to the writing of Shlomo his son.
5. Stand in the holy place according to the divisions of the fathers' houses of your brothers the children of the people, and [let there be for each] a portion of a fathers' house of the Levites.
6. Kill the Passover, and sanctify yourselves, and prepare for your brothers, to do according to the word of YHWH by Moshe.
7. Yoshiyahu gave to the children of the people, of the flock, lambs and kids, all of them for the Passover offerings, to all who were present, to the number of thirty thousand, and three thousand bulls: these were of the king's substance.
8. His princes gave for a freewill offering to the people, to the priests, and to the Levites. Hilkiah and Zekharyah and Jehiel, the rulers of the house of Elohim, gave to the priests for the Passover offerings two thousand and six hundred [small livestock], and three hundred oxen.
9. Conaniah also, and Shemaiah and Nethanel, his brothers, and Hashabiah and Jeiel and Jozabad, the chiefs of the Levites, gave to the Levites for the Passover offerings five thousand [small livestock], and five hundred oxen.
10. So the service was prepared, and the priests stood in their place, and the Levites by their divisions, according to the king's commandment.
11. They killed the Passover, and the priests sprinkled [the blood which they received] of their hand, and the Levites flayed them.
12. They removed the burnt offerings, that they might give them according to the divisions of the fathers' houses of the children of the people, to offer to YHWH, as it is written in the book of Moshe. So did they with the oxen.
13. They roasted the Passover with fire according to the ordinance: and the holy offerings boiled they in pots, and in caldrons, and in pans, and carried them quickly to all the children of the people.
14. Afterward they prepared for themselves, and for the priests, because the priests the sons of Aharon [were busied] in offering the burnt offerings and the fat until night: therefore the Levites prepared for themselves, and for the priests the sons of Aharon.
15. The singers the sons of Asaph were in their place, according to the commandment of Dawid, and Asaph, and Heman, and Jeduthun the king's seer; and the porters were at every gate: they didn't need to depart from their service; for their brothers the Levites prepared for them.
16. So all the service of YHWH was prepared the same day, to keep the Passover, and to offer burnt offerings on the altar of YHWH, according to the commandment of king Yoshiyahu.
17. The children of Israel who were present kept the Passover at that time, and the feast of unleavened bread seven days.
18. There was no Passover like that kept in Israel from the days of Shmuel the prophet; neither did any of the kings of Israel keep such a Passover as Yoshiyahu kept, and the priests, and the Levites, and all Yehudah and Israel who were present, and the inhabitants of Yerushalayim.
19. In the eighteenth year of the reign of Yoshiyahu was this Passover kept.
20. After all this, when Yoshiyahu had prepared the temple, Neco king of Mitzrayim went up to fight against Carchemish by the Perat: and Yoshiyahu went out against him.
21. But he sent ambassadors to him, saying, What have I to do with you, you king of Yehudah? [I come] not against you this day, but against the house with which I have war; and Elohim has commanded me to make haste: forbear you from [meddling with] Elohim, who is with me, that he not destroy you.
22. Nevertheless Yoshiyahu would not turn his face from him, but disguised himself, that he might fight with him, and didn't listen to the words of Neco from the mouth of Elohim, and came to fight in the valley of Megiddo.
23. The archers shot at king Yoshiyahu; and the king said to his servants, Have me away; for I am sore wounded.
24. So his servants took him out of the chariot, and put him in the second chariot that he had, and brought him to Yerushalayim; and he died, and was buried in the tombs of his fathers. All Yehudah and Yerushalayim mourned for Yoshiyahu.
25. Yirmeyahu lamented for Yoshiyahu: and all the singing men and singing women spoke of Yoshiyahu in their lamentations to this day; and they made them an ordinance in Israel: and behold, they are written in the lamentations.
26. Now the rest of the acts of Yoshiyahu, and his good deeds, according to that which is written in the law of YHWH,
27. and his acts, first and last, behold, they are written in the book of the kings of Israel and Yehudah.

2 Chronicles 36
1. Then the people of the land took Jehoahaz the son of Yoshiyahu, and made him king in his father's place in Yerushalayim.
2. Joahaz was twenty-three years old when he began to reign; and he reigned three months in Yerushalayim.
3. The king of Mitzrayim deposed him at Yerushalayim, and fined the land one hundred talents of silver and a talent of gold.
4. The king of Mitzrayim made Eliakim his brother king over Yehudah and Yerushalayim, and changed his name to Jehoiakim. Neco took Joahaz his brother, and carried him to Mitzrayim.
5. Jehoiakim was Twenty-five years old when he began to reign; and he reigned eleven years in Yerushalayim: and he did what was broken in the sight of YHWH his God.
6. Against him came up Nebuchadnezzar king of Bavel, and bound him in fetters, to carry him to Bavel.
7. Nebuchadnezzar also carried of the vessels of the house of YHWH to Bavel, and put them in his temple at Bavel.
8. Now the rest of the acts of Jehoiakim, and his abominations which he did, and that which was found in him, behold, they are written in the book of the kings of Israel and Yehudah: and Jehoiachin his son reigned in his place.
9. Jehoiachin was eight years old when he began to reign; and he reigned three months and ten days in Yerushalayim: and he did what was broken in the sight of YHWH.
10. At the return of the year king Nebuchadnezzar sent, and brought him to Bavel, with the goodly vessels of the house of YHWH, and made Tzidkiyahu his brother king over Yehudah and Yerushalayim.
11. Tzidkiyahu was twenty-one years old when he began to reign; and he reigned eleven years in Yerushalayim:
12. and he did what was broken in the sight of YHWH his God; he didn't humble himself before Yirmeyahu the prophet [speaking] from the mouth of YHWH.
13. He also rebelled against king Nebuchadnezzar, who had made him swear by Elohim: but he stiffened his neck, and hardened his heart against turning to YHWH, the God of Israel.
14. Moreover all the chiefs of the priests, and the people, trespassed very greatly after all the abominations of the nations; and they polluted the house of YHWH which he had made holy in Yerushalayim.
15. YHWH, the God of their fathers, sent to them by his messengers, rising up early and sending, because he had compassion on his people, and on his dwelling place:
16. but they mocked the messengers of Elohim, and despised his words, and scoffed at his prophets, until the wrath of YHWH arose against his people, until there was no remedy.
17. Therefore he brought on them the king of the Chaldeans, who killed their young people with the sword in the house of their sanctuary, and had no compassion on young person or virgin, old man or gray-headed: he gave them all into his hand.
18. All the vessels of the house of Elohim, great and small, and the treasures of the house of YHWH, and the treasures of the king, and of his princes, all these he brought to Bavel.
19. They burnt the house of Elohim, and broke down the wall of Yerushalayim, and burnt all the palaces of it with fire, and destroyed all the goodly vessels of it.
20. He carried those who had escaped from the sword away to Bavel; and they were servants to him and his sons until the reign of the kingdom of Paras:
21. to fulfill the word of YHWH by the mouth of Yirmeyahu, until the land had enjoyed its Sabbaths: [for] as long as it lay desolate it kept Sabbath, to fulfill seventy years.
22. Now in the first year of Cyrus king of Paras, that the word of YHWH by the mouth of Yirmeyahu might be accomplished, YHWH stirred up the spirit of Cyrus king of Paras, so that he made a proclamation throughout all his kingdom, and [put it] also in writing, saying,
23. Thus says Cyrus king of Paras, All the kingdoms of the earth has YHWH, the God of heavens, given me; and he has charged me to build him a house in Yerushalayim, which is in Yehudah. Whoever there is among you of all their people, YHWH their God be with him, and let him go up.

Ezra 1
1. Now in the first year of Cyrus king of Paras, that the word of YHWH by the mouth of Yirmeyahu might be accomplished, YHWH stirred up the spirit of Cyrus king of Paras, so that he made a proclamation throughout all his kingdom, and [put it] also in writing, saying,
2. Thus says Cyrus king of Paras, All the kingdoms of the earth has YHWH, the God of heavens, given me; and he has charged me to build him a house in Yerushalayim, which is in Yehudah.
3. Whoever there is among you of all their people, their God be with him, and let him go up to Yerushalayim, which is in Yehudah, and build the house of YHWH, the God of Israel (they are Elohim), which is in Yerushalayim.
4. Whoever is left, in any place where they sojourns, let the men of their place help him with silver, and with gold, and with goods, and with animals, besides the freewill offering for the house of Elohim which is in Yerushalayim.
5. Then rose up the heads of fathers' [houses] of Yehudah and Binyamin, and the priests, and the Levites, even all whose spirit Elohim had stirred to go up to build the house of YHWH which is in Yerushalayim.
6. All those who were round about them strengthened their hands with vessels of silver, with gold, with goods, and with animals, and with precious things, besides all that was willingly offered.
7. Also Cyrus the king brought forth the vessels of the house of YHWH, which Nebuchadnezzar had brought forth out of Yerushalayim, and had put in the house of his gods;
8. even those did Cyrus king of Paras bring forth by the hand of Mithredath the treasurer, and numbered them to Sheshbazzar, the prince of Yehudah.
9. This is the number of them: thirty platters of gold, one thousand platters of silver, twenty-nine knives,
10. thirty bowls of gold, silver bowls of a second sort four hundred and ten, and other vessels one thousand.
11. All the vessels of gold and of silver were five thousand and four hundred. All these did Sheshbazzar bring up, when they of the captivity were brought up from Bavel to Yerushalayim.

Ezra 2
1. Now these are the children of the province, who went up out of the captivity of those who had been carried away, whom Nebuchadnezzar the king of Bavel had carried away to Bavel, and who returned to Yerushalayim and Yehudah, everyone to their city;
2. who came with Zerubbabel, Jeshua, Nehemiah, Seraiah, Reelaiah, Mordekhai, Bilshan, Mispar, Bigvai, Rehum, Baanah. The number of the men of the people of Israel:
3. The children of Parosh, two thousand one hundred seventy-two.
4. The children of Shephatiah, three hundred seventy-two.
5. The children of Arah, seven hundred seventy-five.
6. The children of Pahathmoab, of the children of Jeshua [and] Yoav, two thousand eight hundred twelve.
7. The children of Elam, one thousand two hundred fifty-four.
8. The children of Zattu, nine hundred forty-five.
9. The children of Zaccai, seven hundred sixty.
10. The children of Bani, six hundred forty-two.
11. The children of Bebai, six hundred twenty-three.
12. The children of Azgad, one thousand two hundred twenty-two.
13. The children of Adonikam, six hundred sixty-six.
14. The children of Bigvai, two thousand fifty-six.
15. The children of Adin, four hundred fifty-four.
16. The children of Ater, of Chizkiyahu, ninety-eight.
17. The children of Bezai, three hundred twenty-three.
18. The children of Jorah, one hundred twelve.
19. The children of Hashum, two hundred Twenty-three.
20. The children of Gibbar, ninety-five.
21. The children of Beit Lechem, one hundred twenty-three.
22. The men of Netophah, fifty-six.
23. The men of Anathoth, one hundred twenty-eight.
24. The children of Azmaveth, forty-two.
25. The children of Kiriath Arim, Chephirah, and Beeroth, seven hundred forty-three.
26. The children of Ramah and Geba, six hundred twenty-one.
27. The men of Michmas, one hundred twenty-two.
28. The men of Beit El and Ai, two hundred twenty-three.
29. The children of Nebo, fifty-two.
30. The children of Magbish, one hundred fifty-six.
31. The children of the other Elam, one thousand two hundred fifty-four.
32. The children of Harim, three hundred twenty.
33. The children of Lod, Hadid, and Ono, seven hundred twenty-five.
34. The children of Yericho, three hundred forty-five.
35. The children of Senaah, three thousand six hundred thirty.
36. The priests: the children of Jedaiah, of the house of Jeshua, nine hundred seventy-three.
37. The children of Immer, one thousand fifty-two.
38. The children of Pashhur, one thousand two hundred forty-seven.
39. The children of Harim, one thousand seventeen.
40. The Levites: the children of Jeshua and Kadmiel, of the children of Hodaviah, seventy-four.
41. The singers: the children of Asaph, one hundred twenty-eight.
42. The children of the porters: the children of Shallum, the children of Ater, the children of Talmon, the children of Akkub, the children of Hatita, the children of Shobai, in all one hundred thirty-nine.
43. The Nethinim: the children of Ziha, the children of Hasupha, the children of Tabbaoth,
44. the children of Keros, the children of Siaha, the children of Padon,
45. the children of Lebanah, the children of Hagabah, the children of Akkub,
46. the children of Hagab, the children of Shamlai, the children of Hanan,
47. the children of Giddel, the children of Gahar, the children of Reaiah,
48. the children of Rezin, the children of Nekoda, the children of Gazzam,
49. the children of Uzza, the children of Paseah, the children of Besai,
50. the children of Asnah, the children of Meunim, the children of Nephisim,
51. the children of Bakbuk, the children of Hakupha, the children of Harhur,
52. the children of Bazluth, the children of Mehida, the children of Harsha,
53. the children of Barkos, the children of Sisera, the children of Temah,
54. the children of Neziah, the children of Hatipha.
55. The children of Shlomo's servants: the children of Sotai, the children of Hassophereth, the children of Peruda,
56. the children of Jaalah, the children of Darkon, the children of Giddel,
57. the children of Shephatiah, the children of Hattil, the children of Pochereth Hazzebaim, the children of Ami.
58. All the Nethinim, and the children of Shlomo's servants, were three hundred ninety-two.
59. These were those who went up from Tel Melah, Tel Harsha, Cherub, Addan, [and] Immer; but they could not show their fathers' houses, and their seed, whether they were of Israel:
60. the children of Delaiah, the children of Tobiah, the children of Nekoda, six hundred fifty-two.
61. Of the children of the priests: the children of Habaiah, the children of Hakkoz, the children of Barzillai, who took a wife of the daughters of Barzillai the Gileadite, and was called after their name.
62. These sought their register [among] those who were reckoned by genealogy, but they were not found: therefore were they deemed polluted and put from the priesthood.
63. The governor said to them, that they should not eat of the most holy things, until there stood up a priest with Urim and with Thummim.
64. The whole assembly together was forty-two thousand three hundred sixty,
65. besides their male servants and their female servants, of whom there were seven thousand three hundred thirty-seven: and they had two hundred singing men and singing women.
66. Their horses were seven hundred thirty-six; their mules, two hundred forty-five;
67. their camels, four hundred thirty-five; [their] donkeys, six thousand seven hundred and twenty.
68. Some of the heads of fathers' [houses], when they came to the house of YHWH which is in Yerushalayim, offered willingly for the house of Elohim to set it up in its place:
69. they gave after their ability into the treasury of the work sixty-one thousand darics of gold, and five thousand minas of silver, and one hundred priests' garments.
70. So the priests, and the Levites, and some of the people, and the singers, and the porters, and the Nethinim, lived in their cities, and all Israel in their cities.

Ezra 3
1. When the seventh month was come, and the children of Israel were in the cities, the people gathered themselves together as one man to Yerushalayim.
2. Then stood up Jeshua the son of Jozadak, and their brothers the priests, and Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel, and their brothers, and built the altar of the God of Israel, to offer burnt offerings thereon, as it is written in the law of Moshe the person of Elohim.
3. They set the altar on its base; for fear was on them because of the peoples of the countries: and they offered burnt offerings thereon to YHWH, even burnt offerings morning and evening.
4. They kept the feast of tents, as it is written, and [offered] the daily burnt offerings by number, according to the ordinance, as the duty of every day required;
5. and afterward the continual burnt offering, and [the offerings] of the new moons, and of all the set feasts of YHWH that were consecrated, and of everyone who willingly offered a freewill offering to YHWH.
6. From the first day of the seventh month began they to offer burnt offerings to YHWH: but the foundation of the temple of YHWH was not yet laid.
7. They gave money also to the masons, and to the carpenters; and food, and drink, and oil, to them of Tzidon, and to them of Tzor, to bring cedar trees from Levanon to the sea, to Yafo, according to the grant that they had of Cyrus king of Paras.
8. Now in the second year of their coming to the house of Elohim at Yerushalayim, in the second month, began Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel, and Jeshua the son of Jozadak, and the rest of their brothers the priests and the Levites, and all those who were come out of the captivity to Yerushalayim, and appointed the Levites, from twenty years old and upward, to have the oversight of the work of the house of YHWH.
9. Then stood Jeshua with his sons and his brothers, Kadmiel and his sons, the sons of Yehudah, together, to have the oversight of the workmen in the house of Elohim: the sons of Henadad, with their sons and their brothers the Levites.
10. When the builders laid the foundation of the temple of YHWH, they set the priests in their clothing with trumpets, and the Levites the sons of Asaph with cymbals, to praise YHWH, after the order of Dawid king of Israel.
11. They sang one to another in praising and giving thanks to YHWH, [saying], For he is good, for his loving kindness endures forever toward Israel. All the people shouted with a great shout, when they praised YHWH, because the foundation of the house of YHWH was laid.
12. But many of the priests and Levites and heads of fathers' [houses], the old people who had seen the first house, when the foundation of this house was laid before their eyes, wept with a loud voice; and many shouted aloud for joy:
13. so that the people could not discern the noise of the shout of joy from the noise of the weeping of the people; for the people shouted with a loud shout, and the noise was heard afar off.

Ezra 4
1. Now when the adversaries of Yehudah and Binyamin heard that the children of the captivity were building a temple to YHWH, the God of Israel;
2. then they drew near to Zerubbabel, and to the heads of fathers' [houses], and said to them, Let us build with you; for we seek your God, as you do; and we sacrifice to him since the days of Esar Haddon king of Ashur, who brought us up here.
3. But Zerubbabel, and Jeshua, and the rest of the heads of fathers' [houses] of Israel, said to them, You have nothing to do with us in building a house to our God; but we ourselves together will build to YHWH, the God of Israel, as king Cyrus the king of Paras has commanded us.
4. Then the people of the land weakened the hands of the people of Yehudah, and troubled them in building,
5. and hired counselors against them, to frustrate their purpose, all the days of Cyrus king of Paras, even until the reign of Darius king of Paras.
6. In the reign of Ahasuerus, in the beginning of his reign, wrote they an accusation against the inhabitants of Yehudah and Yerushalayim.
7. In the days of Artaxerxes wrote Bishlam, Mithredath, Tabeel, and the rest of his companions, to Artaxerxes king of Paras; and the writing of the letter was written in the Syrian [character], and set forth in the Syrian [language].
8. Rehum the chancellor and Shimshai the scribe wrote a letter against Yerushalayim to Artaxerxes the king in this sort:
9. then [wrote] Rehum the chancellor, and Shimshai the scribe, and the rest of their companions, the Dinaites, and the Apharsathchites, the Tarpelites, the Apharsites, the Archevites, the Babylonians, the Shushanchites, the Dehaites, the Elamites,
10. and the rest of the nations whom the great and noble Osnappar brought over, and set in the city of Shomron, and in the rest [of the country] beyond the River, and so forth.
11. This is the copy of the letter that they sent to Artaxerxes the king: Your servants the men beyond the River, and so forth.
12. Be it known to the king, that the Jews who came up from you are come to us to Yerushalayim; they are building the rebellious and the bad city, and have finished the walls, and repaired the foundations.
13. Be it known now to the king that if this city is built, and the walls finished, they will not pay tribute, custom, or toll, and in the end it will be hurtful to the kings.
14. Now because we eat the salt of the palace, and it is not appropriate for us to see the king's dishonor, therefore have we sent and informed the king;
15. that search may be made in the book of the records of your fathers: so shall you find in the book of the records, and know that this city is a rebellious city, and hurtful to kings and provinces, and that they have moved sedition within the same of old time; for which cause was this city laid waste.
16. We inform the king that, if this city be built, and the walls finished, by this means you shall have no portion beyond the River.
17. [Then] sent the king an answer to Rehum the chancellor, and to Shimshai the scribe, and to the rest of their companions who dwell in Shomron, and in the rest [of the country] beyond the River: Peace, and so forth.
18. The letter which you sent to us has been plainly read before me.
19. I decreed, and search has been made, and it is found that this city of old time has made insurrection against kings, and that rebellion and sedition have been made therein.
20. There have been mighty kings also over Yerushalayim, who have ruled over all [the country] beyond the River; and tribute, custom, and toll, was paid to them.
21. Make you now a decree to cause these men to cease, and that this city not be built, until a decree shall be made by me.
22. Take heed that you not be slack herein: why should damage grow to the hurt of the kings?
23. Then when the copy of king Artaxerxes' letter was read before Rehum, and Shimshai the scribe, and their companions, they went in haste to Yerushalayim to the Jews, and made them to cease by force and power.
24. Then ceased the work of the house of Elohim which is at Yerushalayim; and it ceased until the second year of the reign of Darius king of Paras.

Ezra 5
1. Now the prophets, Haggai the prophet, and Zekharyah the son of Iddo, prophesied to the Jews who were in Yehudah and Yerushalayim; in the name of the God of Israel [prophesied they] to them.
2. Then rose up Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel, and Jeshua the son of Jozadak, and began to build the house of Elohim which is at Yerushalayim; and with them were the prophets of Elohim, helping them.
3. At the same time came to them Tattenai, the governor beyond the River, and Shetharbozenai, and their companions, and said thus to them, Who gave you a decree to build this house, and to finish this wall?
4. Then we told them after this manner, what the names of the men were who were making this building.
5. But the eye of their God was on the elders of the Jews, and they did not make them cease, until the matter should come to Darius, and then answer should be returned by letter concerning it.
6. The copy of the letter that Tattenai, the governor beyond the River, and Shetharbozenai, and his companions the Apharsachites, who were beyond the River, sent to Darius the king;
7. they sent a letter to him, in which was written thus: To Darius the king, all peace.
8. Be it known to the king, that we went into the province of Yehudah, to the house of the great Elohim, which is built with great stones, and timber is laid in the walls; and this work goes on with diligence and prospers in their hands.
9. Then asked we those elders, and said to them thus, Who gave you a decree to build this house, and to finish this wall?
10. We asked them their names also, to inform you that we might write the names of the people who were at the head of them.
11. Thus they returned us answer, saying, We are the servants of the God of heavens and earth, and are building the house that was built these many years ago, which a great king of Israel built and finished.
12. But after that our fathers had provoked the God of heavens to wrath, he gave them into the hand of Nebuchadnezzar king of Bavel, the Chaldean, who destroyed this house, and carried the people away into Bavel.
13. But in the first year of Cyrus king of Bavel, Cyrus the king made a decree to build this house of Elohim.
14. The gold and silver vessels also of the house of Elohim, which Nebuchadnezzar took out of the temple that was in Yerushalayim, and brought into the temple of Bavel, those did Cyrus the king take out of the temple of Bavel, and they were delivered to one whose name was Sheshbazzar, whom he had made governor;
15. and he said to him, Take these vessels, go, put them in the temple that is in Yerushalayim, and let the house of Elohim be built in its place.
16. Then came the same Sheshbazzar, and laid the foundations of the house of Elohim which is in Yerushalayim: and since that time even until now has it been in building, and yet it is not completed.
17. Now therefore, if it seem good to the king, let there be search made in the king's treasure house, which is there at Bavel, whether it be so, that a decree was made of Cyrus the king to build this house of Elohim at Yerushalayim; and let the king send his pleasure to us concerning this matter.

Ezra 6
1. Then Darius the king made a decree, and search was made in the house of the archives, where the treasures were laid up in Bavel.
2. There was found at Achmetha, in the palace that is in the province of Media, a scroll, and therein was thus written for a record:
3. In the first year of Cyrus the king, Cyrus the king made a decree: Concerning the house of Elohim at Yerushalayim, let the house be built, the place where they offer sacrifices, and let the foundations of it be strongly laid; the height of it sixty cubits, and the breadth of it sixty cubits;
4. with three courses of great stones, and a course of new timber: and let the expenses be given out of the king's house.
5. Also let the gold and silver vessels of the house of Elohim, which Nebuchadnezzar took forth out of the temple which is at Yerushalayim, and brought to Bavel, be restored, and brought again to the temple which is at Yerushalayim, everyone to its place; and you shall put them in the house of Elohim.
6. Now therefore, Tattenai, governor beyond the River, Shetharbozenai, and your companions the Apharsachites, who are beyond the River, be you far from there:
7. let the work of this house of Elohim alone; let the governor of the Jews and the elders of the Jews build this house of Elohim in its place.
8. Moreover I make a decree what you shall do to these elders of the Jews for the building of this house of Elohim: that of the king's goods, even of the tribute beyond the River, expenses be given with all diligence to these men, that they be not hindered.
9. That which they have need of, both young bulls, and rams, and lambs, for burnt offerings to the God of heavens; [also] wheat, salt, wine, and oil, according to the word of the priests who are at Yerushalayim, let it be given them day by day without fail;
10. that they may offer sacrifices of sweet savor to the God of heavens, and pray for the life of the king, and of his sons.
11. Also I have made a decree, that whoever shall alter this word, let a beam be pulled out from their house, and let him be lifted up and fastened thereon; and let his house be made a dunghill for this:
12. and Elohim, the one who has caused his name to dwell there overthrow all kings and peoples who shall put forth their hand to alter [the same], to destroy this house of Elohim which is at Yerushalayim. I Darius have made a decree; let it be done with all diligence.
13. Then Tattenai, the governor beyond the River, Shetharbozenai, and their companions, because that Darius the king had sent, did accordingly with all diligence.
14. The elders of the Jews built and prospered, through the prophesying of Haggai the prophet and Zekharyah the son of Iddo. They built and finished it, according to the commandment of the God of Israel, and according to the decree of Cyrus, and Darius, and Artaxerxes king of Paras.
15. This house was finished on the third day of the month Adar, which was in the sixth year of the reign of Darius the king.
16. The children of Israel, the priests, and the Levites, and the rest of the children of the captivity, kept the dedication of this house of Elohim with joy.
17. They offered at the dedication of this house of Elohim one hundred bulls, two hundred rams, four hundred lambs; and for a sin offering for all Israel, twelve male goats, according to the number of the tribes of Israel.
18. They set the priests in their divisions, and the Levites in their courses, for the service of Elohim, which is at Yerushalayim; as it is written in the book of Moshe.
19. The children of the captivity kept the Passover on the fourteenth [day] of the first month.
20. For the priests and the Levites had purified themselves together; all of them were pure: and they killed the Passover for all the children of the captivity, and for their brothers the priests, and for themselves.
21. The children of Israel who had come again out of the captivity, and all such as had separated themselves to them from the filthiness of the nations of the land, to seek YHWH, the God of Israel, ate,
22. and kept the feast of unleavened bread seven days with joy: for YHWH had made them joyful, and had turned the heart of the king of Ashur to them, to strengthen their hands in the work of the house of Elohim, the God of Israel.

Ezra 7
1. Now after these things, in the reign of Artaxerxes king of Paras, Ezra the son of Seraiah, the son of Azaryah, the son of Hilkiah,
2. the son of Shallum, the son of Tzadok, the son of Ahitub,
3. the son of Amariah, the son of Azaryah, the son of Meraioth,
4. the son of Zerahiah, the son of Uzzi, the son of Bukki,
5. the son of Abishua, the son of Phinehas, the son of Eleazar, the son of Aharon the chief priest;
6. this Ezra went up from Bavel: and he was a ready scribe in the law of Moshe, which YHWH, the God of Israel, had given; and the king granted him all his request, according to the hand of YHWH his God on him.
7. There went up some of the children of Israel, and of the priests, and the Levites, and the singers, and the porters, and the Nethinim, to Yerushalayim, in the seventh year of Artaxerxes the king.
8. He came to Yerushalayim in the fifth month, which was in the seventh year of the king.
9. For on the first [day] of the first month began he to go up from Bavel; and on the first [day] of the fifth month came he to Yerushalayim, according to the good hand of his God on him.
10. For Ezra had set his heart to seek the law of YHWH, and to do it, and to teach in Israel statutes and ordinances.
11. Now this is the copy of the letter that the king Artaxerxes gave to Ezra the priest, the scribe, even the scribe of the words of the commandments of YHWH, and of his statutes to Israel:
12. Artaxerxes, king of kings, to Ezra the priest, the scribe of the law of the God of heavens, perfect and so forth.
13. I make a decree, that all those of the people of Israel, and their priests and the Levites, in my realm, who are minded of their own free will to go to Yerushalayim, go with you.
14. Because you are sent of the king and his seven counselors, to inquire concerning Yehudah and Yerushalayim, according to the law of your God which is in your hand,
15. and to carry the silver and gold, which the king and his counselors have freely offered to the God of Israel, whose habitation is in Yerushalayim,
16. and all the silver and gold that you shall find in all the province of Bavel, with the freewill offering of the people, and of the priests, offering willingly for the house of their God which is in Yerushalayim;
17. therefore you shall with all diligence buy with this money bulls, rams, lambs, with their meal offerings and their drink offerings, and shall offer them on the altar of the house of your God which is in Yerushalayim.
18. Whatever shall seem good to you and to your brothers to do with the rest of the silver and the gold, that do you after the will of your God.
19. The vessels that are given you for the service of the house of your God, deliver you before the God of Yerushalayim.
20. Whatever more shall be needful for the house of your God, which you shall have occasion to bestow, bestow it out of the king's treasure house.
21. I, even I Artaxerxes the king, do make a decree to all the treasurers who are beyond the River, that whatever Ezra the priest, the scribe of the law of the God of heavens, shall require of you, it be done with all diligence,
22. to one hundred talents of silver, and to one hundred measures of wheat, and to one hundred baths of wine, and to one hundred baths of oil, and salt without prescribing how much.
23. Whatever is commanded by the God of heavens, let it be done exactly for the house of the God of heavens; for why should there be wrath against the realm of the king and his sons?
24. Also we inform you, that touching any of the priests and Levites, the singers, porters, Nethinim, or servants of this house of Elohim, it shall not be lawful to impose tribute, custom, or toll, on them.
25. You, Ezra, after the wisdom of your God who is in your hand, appoint magistrates and judges, who may judge all the people who are beyond the River, all such as know the laws of your God; and teach you the one who doesn't know them.
26. Whoever will not do the law of your God, and the law of the king, let judgment be executed on him with all diligence, whether it be to death, or to banishment, or to confiscation of goods, or to imprisonment.
27. Blessed be YHWH, the God of our fathers, who has put such a thing as this in the king's heart, to beautify the house of YHWH which is in Yerushalayim;
28. and has extended loving kindness to me before the king, and his counselors, and before all the king's mighty princes. I was strengthened according to the hand of YHWH my God on me, and I gathered together out of Israel chief men to go up with me.

Ezra 8
1. Now these are the heads of their fathers' [houses], and this is the genealogy of those who went up with me from Bavel, in the reign of Artaxerxes the king:
2. Of the sons of Phinehas, Gershom. Of the sons of Ithamar, Dani'el. Of the sons of Dawid, Hattush.
3. Of the sons of Shecaniah, of the sons of Parosh, Zekharyah; and with him were reckoned by genealogy of the males one hundred fifty.
4. Of the sons of Pahathmoab, Eliehoenai the son of Zerahiah; and with him two hundred males.
5. Of the sons of Shecaniah, the son of Jahaziel; and with him three hundred males.
6. Of the sons of Adin, Ebed the son of Yonatan; and with him fifty males.
7. Of the sons of Elam, Jeshaiah the son of Athaliah; and with him seventy males.
8. Of the sons of Shephatiah, Zebadiah the son of Michael; and with him eighty males.
9. Of the sons of Yoav, Obadiah the son of Jehiel; and with him two hundred and eighteen males.
10. Of the sons of Shelomith, the son of Josiphiah; and with him one hundred sixty males.
11. Of the sons of Bebai, Zekharyah the son of Bebai; and with him twenty-eight males.
12. Of the sons of Azgad, Johanan the son of Hakkatan; and with him one hundred ten males.
13. Of the sons of Adonikam, [who were] the last; and these are their names: Eliphelet, Jeuel, and Shemaiah; and with them sixty males.
14. Of the sons of Bigvai, Uthai and Zabbud; and with them seventy males.
15. I gathered them together to the river that runs to Ahava; and there we encamped three days: and I viewed the people, and the priests, and found there none of the sons of Levi.
16. Then sent I for Eliezer, for Ariel, for Shemaiah, and for Elnathan, and for Jarib, and for Elnathan, and for Natan, and for Zekharyah, and for Meshullam, chief men; also for Joiarib, and for Elnathan, who were teachers.
17. I sent them forth to Iddo the chief at the place Casiphia; and I told them what they should tell Iddo, [and] his brothers the Nethinim, at the place Casiphia, that they should bring to us ministers for the house of our God.
18. According to the good hand of our God on us they brought us a person of discretion, of the sons of Mahli, the son of Levi, the son of Israel; and Sherebiah, with his sons and his brothers, eighteen;
19. and Hashabiah, and with him Jeshaiah of the sons of Merari, his brothers and their sons, twenty;
20. and of the Nethinim, whom Dawid and the princes had given for the service of the Levites, two hundred and twenty Nethinim: all of them were mentioned by name.
21. Then I proclaimed a fast there, at the river Ahava, that we might humble ourselves before our God, to seek of him a straight way for us, and for our little ones, and for all our substance.
22. For I was ashamed to ask of the king a band of soldiers and horsemen to help us against the enemy in the way, because we had spoken to the king, saying, The hand of our God is on all those who seek him, for good; but his power and his wrath is against all those who forsake him.
23. So we fasted and begged our God for this: and he was entreated of us.
24. Then I set apart twelve of the chiefs of the priests, even Sherebiah, Hashabiah, and ten of their brothers with them,
25. and weighed to them the silver, and the gold, and the vessels, even the offering for the house of our God, which the king, and his counselors, and his princes, and all Israel there present, had offered:
26. I weighed into their hand six hundred fifty talents of silver, and silver vessels one hundred talents; of gold one hundred talents;
27. and twenty bowls of gold, of one thousand darics; and two vessels of fine bright brass, precious as gold.
28. I said to them, You are holy to YHWH, and the vessels are holy; and the silver and the gold are a freewill offering to YHWH, the God of your fathers.
29. Watch you, and keep them, until you weigh them before the chiefs of the priests and the Levites, and the princes of the fathers' [houses] of Israel, at Yerushalayim, in the chambers of the house of YHWH.
30. So the priests and the Levites received the weight of the silver and the gold, and the vessels, to bring them to Yerushalayim to the house of our God.
31. Then we departed from the river Ahava on the twelfth [day] of the first month, to go to Yerushalayim: and the hand of our God was on us, and he delivered us from the hand of the enemy and the bandit by the way.
32. We came to Yerushalayim, and abode there three days.
33. On the fourth day the silver and the gold and the vessels were weighed in the house of our God into the hand of Meremoth the son of Uriyah the priest; and with him was Eleazar the son of Phinehas; and with them was Jozabad the son of Jeshua, and Noadiah the son of Binnui, the Levite;
34. the whole by number and by weight: and all the weight was written at that time.
35. The children of the captivity, who had come out of exile, offered burnt offerings to the God of Israel, twelve bulls for all Israel, ninety-six rams, seventy-seven lambs, and twelve male goats for a sin offering: all this was a burnt offering to YHWH.
36. They delivered the king's commissions to the king's satraps, and to the governors beyond the River: and they furthered the people and the house of Elohim.

Ezra 9
1. Now when these things were done, the princes drew near to me, saying, The people of Israel, and the priests and the Levites, have not separated themselves from the peoples of the lands, [doing] according to their abominations, even of the Canaanites, the Hittites, the Perizzites, the Jebusites, the Ammonites, the Moabites, the Egyptians, and the Amorites.
2. For they have taken of their daughters for themselves and for their sons, so that the holy seed have mixed themselves with the peoples of the lands: yes, the hand of the princes and rulers has been chief in this trespass.
3. When I heard this thing, I tore my garment and my robe, and plucked off the hair of my head and of my beard, and sat down confounded.
4. Then were assembled to me everyone who trembled at the words of the God of Israel, because of the trespass of them of the captivity; and I sat confounded until the evening offering.
5. At the evening offering I arose up from my humiliation, even with my garment and my robe torn; and I fell on my knees, and spread out my hands to YHWH my God;
6. and I said, my God, I am ashamed and blush to lift up my face to you, my God; for our iniquities are increased over our head, and our guiltiness is grown up to the heavens.
7. Since the days of our fathers we have been exceeding guilty to this day; and for our iniquities have we, our kings, and our priests, been delivered into the hand of the kings of the lands, to the sword, to captivity, and to plunder, and to confusion of face, as it is this day.
8. Now for a little moment grace has been shown from YHWH our God, to leave us a remnant to escape, and to give us a nail in his holy place, that our God may lighten our eyes, and give us a little reviving in our bondage.
9. For we are bondservants; yet our God has not forsaken us in our bondage, but has extended loving kindness to us in the sight of the kings of Paras, to give us a reviving, to set up the house of our God, and to repair the ruins of it, and to give us a wall in Yehudah and in Yerushalayim.
10. Now, our God, what shall we say after this? for we have forsaken your commandments,
11. which you have commanded by your servants the prophets, saying, The land, to which you go to possess it, is an unclean land through the uncleanness of the peoples of the lands, through their abominations, which have filled it from one end to another with their filthiness:
12. now therefore don't give your daughters to their sons, neither take their daughters to your sons, nor seek their peace or their prosperity forever; that you may be strong, and eat the good of the land, and leave it for an inheritance to your children forever.
13. After all that is come on us for our broken deeds, and for our great guilt, seeing that you our God have punished us less than our iniquities deserve, and have given us such a remnant,
14. shall we again break your commandments, and join in affinity with the peoples that do these abominations? would not you be angry with us until you had consumed us, so that there should be no remnant, nor any to escape?
15. YHWH, the God of Israel, you are righteous; for we are left a remnant that is escaped, as it is this day: behold, we are before you in our guiltiness; for none can stand before you because of this.

Ezra 10
1. Now while Ezra prayed and made confession, weeping and casting himself down before the house of Elohim, there was gathered together to him out of Israel a very great assembly of people and women and children; for the people wept very sore.
2. Shecaniah the son of Jehiel, one of the sons of Elam, answered Ezra, We have trespassed against our God, and have married foreign women of the peoples of the land: yet now there is hope for Israel concerning this thing.
3. Now therefore let us make a covenant with our God to put away all the wives, and such as are born of them, according to the counsel of my lord, and of those who tremble at the commandment of our God; and let it be done according to the law.
4. Arise; for the matter belongs to you, and we are with you: be of good courage, and do it.
5. Then arose Ezra, and made the chiefs of the priests, the Levites, and all Israel, to swear that they would do according to this word. So they swore.
6. Then Ezra rose up from before the house of Elohim, and went into the chamber of Jehohanan the son of Eliashib: and [when] he came there, he ate no bread, nor drank water; for he mourned because of the trespass of them of the captivity.
7. They made proclamation throughout Yehudah and Yerushalayim to all the children of the captivity, that they should gather themselves together to Yerushalayim;
8. and that whoever didn't come within three days, according to the counsel of the princes and the elders, all their substance should be forfeited, and themselves separated from the assembly of the captivity.
9. Then all the people of Yehudah and Binyamin gathered themselves together to Yerushalayim within the three days; it was the ninth month, on the twentieth [day] of the month: and all the people sat in the broad place before the house of Elohim, trembling because of this matter, and for the great rain.
10. Ezra the priest stood up, and said to them, You have trespassed, and have married foreign women, to increase the guilt of Israel.
11. Now therefore make confession to YHWH, the God of your fathers, and do his pleasure; and separate yourselves from the peoples of the land, and from the foreign women.
12. Then all the assembly answered with a loud voice, As you have said concerning us, so must we do.
13. But the people are many, and it is a time of much rain, and we are not able to stand outside: neither is this a work of one day or two; for we have greatly transgressed in this matter.
14. Let now our princes be appointed for all the assembly, and let all those who are in our cities who have married foreign women come at appointed times, and with them the elders of every city, and the judges of it, until the fierce wrath of our God be turned from us, until this matter be dispatched.
15. Only Yonatan the son of Asahel and Jahzeiah the son of Tikvah stood up against this [matter]: and Meshullam and Shabbethai the Levite helped them.
16. The children of the captivity did so. Ezra the priest, [with] certain heads of fathers' [houses], after their fathers' houses, and all of them by their names, were set apart; and they sat down in the first day of the tenth month to examine the matter.
17. They made an end with all the people who had married foreign women by the first day of the first month.
18. Among the sons of the priests there were found who had married foreign women: [namely], of the sons of Jeshua, the son of Jozadak, and his brothers, Maaseiah, and Eliezer, and Jarib, and Gedaliah.
19. They gave their hand that they would put away their wives; and being guilty, [they offered] a ram of the flock for their guilt.
20. Of the sons of Immer: Hanani and Zebadiah.
21. Of the sons of Harim: Maaseiah, and Eliyahu, and Shemaiah, and Jehiel, and Uzziah.
22. Of the sons of Pashhur: Elioenai, Maaseiah, Ishmael, Nethanel, Jozabad, and Elasah.
23. Of the Levites: Jozabad, and Shimei, and Kelaiah (the same is Kelita), Pethahiah, Yehudah, and Eliezer.
24. Of the singers: Eliashib. Of the porters: Shallum, and Telem, and Uri.
25. Of Israel: Of the sons of Parosh: Ramiah, and Izziah, and Malchijah, and Mijamin, and Eleazar, and Malchijah, and Benayahu.
26. Of the sons of Elam: Mattaniah, Zekharyah, and Jehiel, and Abdi, and Jeremoth, and Eliyahu.
27. Of the sons of Zattu: Elioenai, Eliashib, Mattaniah, and Jeremoth, and Zabad, and Aziza.
28. Of the sons of Bebai: Jehohanan, Hananiah, Zabbai, Athlai.
29. Of the sons of Bani: Meshullam, Malluch, and Adaiah, Jashub, and Sheal, Jeremoth.
30. Of the sons of Pahathmoab: Adna, and Chelal, Benayahu, Maaseiah, Mattaniah, Bezalel, and Binnui, and Menashe.
31. [of] the sons of Harim: Eliezer, Isshijah, Malchijah, Shemaiah, Shimeon,
32. Binyamin, Malluch, Shemariah.
33. Of the sons of Hashum: Mattenai, Mattattah, Zabad, Eliphelet, Jeremai, Menashe, Shimei.
34. Of the sons of Bani: Maadai, Amram, and Uel,
35. Benayahu, Bedeiah, Cheluhi,
36. Vaniah, Meremoth, Eliashib,
37. Mattaniah, Mattenai, and Jaasu,
38. and Bani, and Binnui, Shimei,
39. and Shelemiah, and Natan, and Adaiah,
40. Machnadebai, Shashai, Sharai,
41. Azarel, and Shelemiah, Shemariah,
42. Shallum, Amariah, Yosef.
43. Of the sons of Nebo: Jeiel, Mattithiah, Zabad, Zebina, Iddo, and Joel, Benayahu.
44. All these had taken foreign wives; and some of them had wives by whom they had children.

Nehemiah 1
1. The words of Nehemiah the son of Hacaliah. Now it happened in the month Chislev, in the twentieth year, as I was in Shushan the palace,
2. that Hanani, one of my brothers, came, he and certain men out of Yehudah; and I asked them concerning the Jews who had escaped, who were left of the captivity, and concerning Yerushalayim.
3. They said to me, The remnant who are left of the captivity there in the province are in great affliction and reproach: the wall of Yerushalayim also is broken down, and the gates of it are burned with fire.
4. It happened, when I heard these words, that I sat down and wept, and mourned certain days; and I fasted and prayed before the God of heavens,
5. and said, I beg you, YHWH, the God of heavens, the great and awesome Elohim, who keeps covenant and loving kindness with those who love him and keep his commandments:
6. Let your ear now be attentive, and your eyes open, that you may listen to the prayer of your servant, which I pray before you at this time, day and night, for the children of Israel your servants while I confess the sins of the children of Israel, which we have sinned against you. Yes, I and my father's house have sinned:
7. we have dealt very corruptly against you, and have not kept the commandments, nor the statutes, nor the ordinances, which you commanded your servant Moshe.
8. Remember, I beg you, the word that you commanded your servant Moshe, saying, If you trespass, I will scatter you abroad among the peoples:
9. but if you return to me, and keep my commandments and do them, though your outcasts were in the uttermost part of the heavens, yet will I gather them from there, and will bring them to the place that I have chosen, to cause my name to dwell there.
10. Now these are your servants and your people, whom you have redeemed by your great power, and by your strong hand.
11. YHWH, I beg you, let now your ear be attentive to the prayer of your servant, and to the prayer of your servants, who delight to revere your name; and please prosper your servant this day, and grant him mercy in the sight of this man. Now I was cup bearer to the king.

Nehemiah 2
1. It happened in the month Nisan, in the twentieth year of Artaxerxes the king, when wine was before him, that I took up the wine, and gave it to the king. Now I had not been [before] sad in his presence.
2. The king said to me, Why is your face sad, seeing you are not sick? this is nothing else but sorrow of heart. Then I was very sore afraid.
3. I said to the king, Let the king live forever: why should not my face be sad, when the city, the place of my fathers' tombs, lies waste, and the gates of it are consumed with fire?
4. Then the king said to me, For what do you make request? So I prayed to the God of heavens.
5. I said to the king, If it please the king, and if your servant have found favor in your sight, that you would send me to Yehudah, to the city of my fathers' tombs, that I may build it.
6. The king said to me (the queen also sitting by him), For how long shall your journey be? and when will you return? So it pleased the king to send me; and I set him a time.
7. Moreover I said to the king, If it please the king, let letters be given me to the governors beyond the River, that they may let me pass through until I come to Yehudah;
8. and a letter to Asaph the keeper of the king's forest, that he may give me timber to make beams for the gates of the castle which appertains to the house, and for the wall of the city, and for the house that I shall enter into. The king granted me, according to the good hand of my God on me.
9. Then I came to the governors beyond the River, and gave them the king's letters. Now the king had sent with me captains of the army and horsemen.
10. When Sanballat the Horonite, and Tobiah the servant, the Ammonite, heard of it, it grieved them exceedingly, because a person had come to seek the welfare of the children of Israel.
11. So I came to Yerushalayim, and was there three days.
12. I arose in the night, I and some few men with me; neither told I anyone what my God put into my heart to do for Yerushalayim; neither was there any animal with me, except the animal that I rode on.
13. I went out by night by the valley gate, even toward the jackal's well, and to the dung gate, and viewed the walls of Yerushalayim, which were broken down, and the gates of it were consumed with fire.
14. Then I went on to the spring gate and to the king's pool: but there was no place for the animal that was under me to pass.
15. Then went I up in the night by the brook, and viewed the wall; and I turned back, and entered by the valley gate, and so returned.
16. The rulers didn't know where I went, or what I did; neither had I as yet told it to the Jews, nor to the priests, nor to the nobles, nor to the rulers, nor to the rest who did the work.
17. Then said I to them, You see the brokenness case that we are in, how Yerushalayim lies waste, and the gates of it are burned with fire: come, and let us build up the wall of Yerushalayim, that we be no more a reproach.
18. I told them of the hand of my God which was good on me, as also of the king's words that he had spoken to me. They said, Let us rise up and build. So they strengthened their hands for the good [work].
19. But when Sanballat the Horonite, and Tobiah the servant, the Ammonite, and Geshem the Arabian, heard it, they ridiculed us, and despised us, and said, What is this thing that you do? will you rebel against the king?
20. Then answered I them, and said to them, The God of heavens, he will prosper us; therefore we his servants will arise and build: but you have no portion, nor right, nor memorial, in Yerushalayim.

Nehemiah 3
1. Then Eliashib the high priest rose up with his brothers the priests, and they built the sheep gate; they sanctified it, and set up the doors of it; even to the tower of Hammeah they sanctified it, to the tower of Hananel.
2. Next to him built the men of Yericho. Next to them built Zaccur the son of Imri.
3. The fish gate did the sons of Hassenaah build; they laid the beams of it, and set up the doors of it, the bolts of it, and the bars of it.
4. Next to them repaired Meremoth the son of Uriyah, the son of Hakkoz. Next to them repaired Meshullam the son of Berechiah, the son of Meshezabel. Next to them repaired Tzadok the son of Baana.
5. Next to them the Tekoites repaired; but their nobles didn't put their necks to the work of their lord.
6. The old gate repaired Joiada the son of Paseah and Meshullam the son of Besodeiah; they laid the beams of it, and set up the doors of it, and the bolts of it, and the bars of it.
7. Next to them repaired Melatiah the Gibeonite, and Jadon the Meronothite, the men of Gibeon, and of Mizpah, [that appertained] to the throne of the governor beyond the River.
8. Next to him repaired Uzziel the son of Harhaiah, goldsmiths. Next to him repaired Hananiah one of the perfumers, and they fortified Yerushalayim even to the broad wall.
9. Next to them repaired Rephaiah the son of Hur, the ruler of half the district of Yerushalayim.
10. Next to them repaired Jedaiah the son of Harumaph, over against his house. Next to him repaired Hattush the son of Hashabneiah.
11. Malchijah the son of Harim, and Hasshub the son of Pahathmoab, repaired another portion, and the tower of the furnaces.
12. Next to him repaired Shallum the son of Hallohesh, the ruler of half the district of Yerushalayim, he and his daughters.
13. The valley gate repaired Hanun, and the inhabitants of Zanoah; they built it, and set up the doors of it, the bolts of it, and the bars of it, and one thousand cubits of the wall to the dung gate.
14. The dung gate repaired Malchijah the son of Rechab, the ruler of the district of Beth Haccherem; he built it, and set up the doors of it, the bolts of it, and the bars of it.
15. The spring gate repaired Shallun the son of Colhozeh, the ruler of the district of Mizpah; he built it, and covered it, and set up the doors of it, the bolts of it, and the bars of it, and the wall of the pool of Shelah by the king's garden, even to the stairs that go down from the city of Dawid.
16. After him repaired Nehemiah the son of Azbuk, the ruler of half the district of Beth Zur, to the place over against the tombs of Dawid, and to the pool that was made, and to the house of the mighty men.
17. After him repaired the Levites, Rehum the son of Bani. Next to him repaired Hashabiah, the ruler of half the district of Keilah, for his district.
18. After him repaired their brothers, Bavvai the son of Henadad, the ruler of half the district of Keilah.
19. Next to him repaired Ezer the son of Jeshua, the ruler of Mizpah, another portion, over against the ascent to the armory at the turning [of the wall].
20. After him Baruch the son of Zabbai earnestly repaired another portion, from the turning [of the wall] to the door of the house of Eliashib the high priest.
21. After him repaired Meremoth the son of Uriyah the son of Hakkoz another portion, from the door of the house of Eliashib even to the end of the house of Eliashib.
22. After him repaired the priests, the men of the Plain.
23. After them repaired Binyamin and Hasshub over against their house. After them repaired Azaryah the son of Maaseiah the son of Ananiah beside his own house.
24. After him repaired Binnui the son of Henadad another portion, from the house of Azaryah to the turning [of the wall], and to the corner.
25. Palal the son of Uzai [repaired] over against the turning [of the wall], and the tower that stands out from the upper house of the king, which is by the court of the guard. After him Pedaiah the son of Parosh [repaired].
26. (Now the Nethinim lived in Ophel, to the place over against the water gate toward the east, and the tower that stands out.)
27. After him the Tekoites repaired another portion, over against the great tower that stands out, and to the wall of Ophel.
28. Above the horse gate repaired the priests, everyone over against their own house.
29. After them repaired Tzadok the son of Immer over against his own house. After him repaired Shemaiah the son of Shecaniah, the keeper of the east gate.
30. After him repaired Hananiah the son of Shelemiah, and Hanun the sixth son of Zalaph, another portion. After him repaired Meshullam the son of Berechiah over against his chamber.
31. After him repaired Malchijah one of the goldsmiths to the house of the Nethinim, and of the merchants, over against the gate of Hammiphkad, and to the ascent of the corner.
32. Between the ascent of the corner and the sheep gate repaired the goldsmiths and the merchants.

Nehemiah 4
1. But it happened that when Sanballat heard that we were building the wall, he was angry, and took great indignation, and mocked the Jews.
2. He spoke before his brothers and the army of Shomron, and said, What are these feeble Jews doing? will they fortify themselves? will they sacrifice? will they make an end in a day? will they revive the stones out of the heaps of rubbish, seeing they are burned?
3. Now Tobiah the Ammonite was by him, and he said, Even that which they are building, if a fox go up, he shall break down their stone wall.
4. Hear, our God; for we are despised: and turn back their reproach on their own head, and give them up for a spoil in a land of captivity;
5. and don't cover their iniquity, and don't let their sin be blotted out from before you; for they have provoked [you] to anger before the builders.
6. So we built the wall; and all the wall was joined together to half [the height] of it: for the people had a mind to work.
7. But it happened that when Sanballat, Tobiah, the Arabians, the Ammonites, and the Ashdodites heard that the repairing of the walls of Yerushalayim went forward, [and] that the breaches began to be stopped, then they were very angry;
8. and they conspired all of them together to come and fight against Yerushalayim, and to cause confusion therein.
9. But we made our prayer to our God, and set a watch against them day and night, because of them.
10. Yehudah said, The strength of the bearers of burdens is decayed, and there is much rubbish; so that we are not able to build the wall.
11. Our adversaries said, They shall not know, neither see, until we come into the midst of them, and kill them, and cause the work to cease.
12. It happened that when the Jews who lived by them came, they said to us ten times from all places, You must return to us.
13. Therefore set I in the lowest parts of the space behind the wall, in the open places, I set [there] the people after their families with their swords, their spears, and their bows.
14. I looked, and rose up, and said to the nobles, and to the rulers, and to the rest of the people, Don't be you afraid of them: remember YHWH, who is great and awesome, and fight for your brothers, your sons, and your daughters, your wives, and your houses.
15. It happened, when our enemies heard that it was known to us, and Elohim had brought their counsel to nothing, that we returned all of us to the wall, everyone to their work.
16. It happened from that time forth, that half of my servants worked in the work, and half of them held the spears, the shields, and the bows, and the coats of mail; and the rulers were behind all the house of Yehudah.
17. They all built the wall and those who bore burdens loaded themselves; everyone with one of their hands worked in the work, and with the other held their weapon;
18. and the builders, everyone had their sword girded by their side, and so built. The one who sounded the trumpet was by me.
19. I said to the nobles, and to the rulers and to the rest of the people, The work is great and large, and we are separated on the wall, one far from another:
20. in whatever place you hear the sound of the trumpet, resort you there to us; our God will fight for us.
21. So we worked in the work: and half of them held the spears from the rising of the morning until the stars appeared.
22. Likewise at the same time said I to the people, Let everyone with their servant lodge within Yerushalayim, that in the night they may be a guard to us, and may labor in the day.
23. So neither I, nor my brothers, nor my servants, nor the men of the guard who followed me, none of us put off our clothes, everyone [went with] their weapon [to] the water.

Nehemiah 5
1. Then there arose a great cry of the people and of their wives against their brothers the Jews.
2. For there were that said, We, our sons and our daughters, are many: let us get grain, that we may eat and live.
3. Some also there were that said, We are mortgaging our fields, and our vineyards, and our houses: let us get grain, because of the dearth.
4. There were also that said, We have borrowed money for the king's tribute [on] our fields and our vineyards.
5. Yet now our flesh is as the flesh of our brothers, our children as their children: and behold, we bring into bondage our sons and our daughters to be servants, and some of our daughters are brought into bondage [already]: neither is it in our power to help it; for other men have our fields and our vineyards.
6. I was very angry when I heard their cry and these words.
7. Then I consulted with myself, and contended with the nobles and the rulers, and said to them, You exact usury, everyone of their brother. I held a great assembly against them.
8. I said to them, We after our ability have redeemed our brothers the Jews, that were sold to the nations; and would you even sell your brothers, and should they be sold to us? Then held they their peace, and found never a word.
9. Also I said, The thing that you do is not good: ought you not to walk in the fear of our God, because of the reproach of the nations our enemies?
10. I likewise, my brothers and my servants, do lend them money and grain. Please let us leave off this usury.
11. Please restore to them, even this day, their fields, their vineyards, their olive groves, and their houses, also the hundredth part of the money, and of the grain, the new wine, and the oil, that you exact of them.
12. Then said they, We will restore them, and will require nothing of them; so will we do, even as you say. Then I called the priests, and took an oath of them, that they would do according to this promise.
13. Also I shook out my lap, and said, So Elohim shake out everyone from their house, and from their labor, that doesn't perform this promise; even thus be he shaken out, and emptied. All the assembly said, Amen, and praised YHWH. The people did according to this promise.
14. Moreover from the time that I was appointed to be their governor in the land of Yehudah, from the twentieth year even to the two and thirtieth year of Artaxerxes the king, [that is], twelve years, I and my brothers have not eaten the bread of the governor.
15. But the former governors who were before me were chargeable to the people, and took of them bread and wine, besides forty shekels of silver; yes, even their servants bore rule over the people: but I didn't do so, because of reverence for God.
16. Yes, also I continued in the work of this wall, neither bought we any land: and all my servants were gathered there to the work.
17. Moreover there were at my table, of the Jews and the rulers, one hundred fifty men, besides those who came to us from among the nations that were round about us.
18. Now that which was prepared for one day was one ox and six choice sheep; also fowls were prepared for me, and once in ten days store of all sorts of wine: yet for all this I didn't demand the bread of the governor, because the bondage was heavy on this people.
19. Remember to me, my God, for good, all that I have done for this people.

Nehemiah 6
1. Now it happened, when it was reported to Sanballat and Tobiah, and to Geshem the Arabian, and to the rest of our enemies, that I had built the wall, and that there was no breach left therein; (though even to that time I had not set up the doors in the gates;)
2. that Sanballat and Geshem sent to me, saying, Come, let us meet together in [one of] the villages in the plain of Ono. But they thought to do me mischief.
3. I sent messengers to them, saying, I am doing a great work, so that I can't come down: why should the work cease, while I leave it, and come down to you?
4. They sent to me four times after this sort; and I answered them after the same manner.
5. Then sent Sanballat his servant to me in like manner the fifth time with an open letter in his hand,
6. in which was written, It is reported among the nations, and Gashmu says it, that you and the Jews think to rebel; for which cause you are building the wall: and you would be their king, according to these words.
7. You have also appointed prophets to preach of you at Yerushalayim, saying, There is a king in Yehudah: and now shall it be reported to the king according to these words. Come now therefore, and let us take counsel together.
8. Then I sent to him, saying, There are no such things done as you say, but you feign them out of your own heart.
9. For they all would have made us afraid, saying, Their hands shall be weakened from the work, that it not be done. But now, [Elohim], strengthen you my hands.
10. I went to the house of Shemaiah the son of Delaiah the son of Mehetabel, who was shut up; and he said, Let us meet together in the house of Elohim, within the temple, and let us shut the doors of the temple: for they will come to kill you; yes, in the night will they come to kill you.
11. I said, Should such a person as I flee? and who is there that, being such as I, would go into the temple to save his life? I will not go in.
12. I discerned, and behold, Elohim had not sent him; but he pronounced this prophecy against me: and Tobiah and Sanballat had hired him.
13. For this cause was he hired, that I should be afraid, and do so, and sin, and that they might have matter for an harmful report, that they might reproach me.
14. Remember, my God, Tobiah and Sanballat according to these their works, and also the prophetess Noadiah, and the rest of the prophets, that would have put me in fear.
15. So the wall was finished in the twenty-fifth [day] of [the month] Elul, in fifty-two days.
16. It happened, when all our enemies heard [of it], that all the nations that were about us feared, and were much cast down in their own eyes; for they perceived that this work was worked of our God.
17. Moreover in those days the nobles of Yehudah sent many letters to Tobiah, and [the letters] of Tobiah came to them.
18. For there were many in Yehudah sworn to him, because he was the son-in-law of Shecaniah the son of Arah; and his son Jehohanan had taken the daughter of Meshullam the son of Berechiah as wife.
19. Also they spoke of his good deeds before me, and reported my words to him. Tobiah sent letters to put me in fear.

Nehemiah 7
1. Now it happened, when the wall was built, and I had set up the doors, and the porters and the singers and the Levites were appointed,
2. that I gave my brother Hanani, and Hananiah the governor of the castle, charge over Yerushalayim; for he was a faithful man, and revered God above many.
3. I said to them, Don't let the gates of Yerushalayim be opened until the sun be hot; and while they stand [on guard], let them shut the doors, and bar you them: and appoint watches of the inhabitants of Yerushalayim, everyone in their watch, and everyone [to be] over against their house.
4. Now the city was wide and large; but the people were few therein, and the houses were not built.
5. my God put into my heart to gather together the nobles, and the rulers, and the people, that they might be reckoned by genealogy. I found the book of the genealogy of those who came up at the first, and I found written therein:
6. These are the children of the province, who went up out of the captivity of those who had been carried away, whom Nebuchadnezzar the king of Bavel had carried away, and who returned to Yerushalayim and to Yehudah, everyone to their city;
7. who came with Zerubbabel, Jeshua, Nehemiah, Azaryah, Raamiah, Nahamani, Mordekhai, Bilshan, Mispereth, Bigvai, Nehum, Baanah. The number of the men of the people of Israel:
8. The children of Parosh, two thousand one hundred seventy-two.
9. The children of Shephatiah, three hundred seventy-two.
10. The children of Arah, six hundred fifty-two.
11. The children of Pahathmoab, of the children of Jeshua and Yoav, two thousand eight hundred [and] eighteen.
12. The children of Elam, one thousand two hundred fifty-four.
13. The children of Zattu, eight hundred forty-five.
14. The children of Zaccai, seven hundred sixty.
15. The children of Binnui, six hundred forty-eight.
16. The children of Bebai, six hundred twenty-eight.
17. The children of Azgad, two thousand three hundred twenty-two.
18. The children of Adonikam, six hundred sixty-seven.
19. The children of Bigvai, two thousand sixty-seven.
20. The children of Adin, six hundred fifty-five.
21. The children of Ater, of Chizkiyahu, ninety-eight.
22. The children of Hashum, three hundred Twenty-eight.
23. The children of Bezai, three hundred twenty-four.
24. The children of Hariph, one hundred twelve.
25. The children of Gibeon, ninety-five.
26. The men of Beit Lechem and Netophah, one hundred eighty-eight.
27. The men of Anathoth, one hundred twenty-eight.
28. The men of Beth Azmaveth, forty-two.
29. The men of Kiriath Jearim, Chephirah, and Beeroth, seven hundred forty-three.
30. The men of Ramah and Geba, six hundred twenty-one.
31. The men of Michmas, one hundred and twenty-two.
32. The men of Beit El and Ai, a hundred twenty-three.
33. The men of the other Nebo, fifty-two.
34. The children of the other Elam, one thousand two hundred fifty-four.
35. The children of Harim, three hundred twenty.
36. The children of Yericho, three hundred forty-five.
37. The children of Lod, Hadid, and Ono, seven hundred twenty-one.
38. The children of Senaah, three thousand nine hundred thirty.
39. The priests: The children of Jedaiah, of the house of Jeshua, nine hundred seventy-three.
40. The children of Immer, one thousand fifty-two.
41. The children of Pashhur, one thousand two hundred forty-seven.
42. The children of Harim, one thousand [and] seventeen.
43. The Levites: the children of Jeshua, of Kadmiel, of the children of Hodevah, seventy-four.
44. The singers: the children of Asaph, one hundred forty-eight.
45. The porters: the children of Shallum, the children of Ater, the children of Talmon, the children of Akkub, the children of Hatita, the children of Shobai, one hundred thirty-eight.
46. The Nethinim: the children of Ziha, the children of Hasupha, the children of Tabbaoth,
47. the children of Keros, the children of Sia, the children of Padon,
48. the children of Lebana, the children of Hagaba, the children of Salmai,
49. the children of Hanan, the children of Giddel, the children of Gahar,
50. the children of Reaiah, the children of Rezin, the children of Nekoda,
51. the children of Gazzam, the children of Uzza, the children of Paseah.
52. The children of Besai, the children of Meunim, the children of Nephushesim,
53. the children of Bakbuk, the children of Hakupha, the children of Harhur,
54. the children of Bazlith, the children of Mehida, the children of Harsha,
55. the children of Barkos, the children of Sisera, the children of Temah,
56. the children of Neziah, the children of Hatipha.
57. The children of Shlomo's servants: the children of Sotai, the children of Sophereth, the children of Perida,
58. the children of Jaala, the children of Darkon, the children of Giddel,
59. the children of Shephatiah, the children of Hattil, the children of Pochereth Hazzebaim, the children of Amon.
60. All the Nethinim, and the children of Shlomo's servants, were three hundred ninety-two.
61. These were those who went up from Tel Melah, Tel Harsha, Cherub, Addon, and Immer; but they could not show their fathers' houses, nor their seed, whether they were of Israel:
62. The children of Delaiah, the children of Tobiah, the children of Nekoda, six hundred forty-two.
63. Of the priests: the children of Hobaiah, the children of Hakkoz, the children of Barzillai, who took a wife of the daughters of Barzillai the Gileadite, and was called after their name.
64. These sought their register [among] those who were reckoned by genealogy, but it was not found: therefore were they deemed polluted and put from the priesthood.
65. The governor said to them, that they should not eat of the most holy things, until there stood up a priest with Urim and Thummim.
66. The whole assembly together was forty-two thousand three hundred sixty,
67. besides their male servants and their female servants, of whom there were seven thousand three hundred thirty-seven: and they had two hundred forty-five singing men and singing women.
68. Their horses were seven hundred thirty-six; their mules, two hundred forty-five;
69. [their] camels, four hundred thirty-five; [their] donkeys, six thousand seven hundred twenty.
70. Some from among the heads of fathers' [houses] gave to the work. The governor gave to the treasury one thousand darics of gold, fifty basins, and five hundred thirty priests' garments.
71. Some of the heads of fathers' [houses] gave into the treasury of the work twenty thousand darics of gold, and two thousand two hundred minas of silver.
72. That which the rest of the people gave was twenty thousand darics of gold, and two thousand minas of silver, and sixty-seven priests' garments.
73. So the priests, and the Levites, and the porters, and the singers, and some of the people, and the Nethinim, and all Israel, lived in their cities. When the seventh month was come, the children of Israel were in their cities.

Nehemiah 8
1. All the people gathered themselves together as one man into the broad place that was before the water gate; and they spoke to Ezra the scribe to bring the book of the law of Moshe, which YHWH had commanded to Israel.
2. Ezra the priest brought the law before the assembly, both men and women, and all who could hear with understanding, on the first day of the seventh month.
3. He read therein before the broad place that was before the water gate from early morning until midday, in the presence of the men and the women, and of those who could understand; and the ears of all the people were [attentive] to the book of the law.
4. Ezra the scribe stood on a pulpit of wood, which they had made for the purpose; and beside him stood Mattithiah, and Shema, and Anaiah, and Uriyah, and Hilkiah, and Maaseiah, on his right hand; and on his left hand, Pedaiah, and Mishael, and Malchijah, and Hashum, and Hashbaddanah, Zekharyah, [and] Meshullam.
5. Ezra opened the book in the sight of all the people; (for he was above all the people;) and when he opened it, all the people stood up:
6. and Ezra blessed YHWH, the great Elohim. All the people answered, Amen, Amen, with the lifting up of their hands: and they bowed their heads, and worshiped YHWH with their faces to the ground.
7. Also Jeshua, and Bani, and Sherebiah, Jamin, Akkub, Shabbethai, Hodiah, Maaseiah, Kelita, Azaryah, Jozabad, Hanan, Pelaiah, and the Levites, caused the people to understand the law: and the people [stood] in their place.
8. They read in the book, in the law of Elohim, distinctly; and they gave the sense, so that they understood the reading.
9. Nehemiah, who was the governor, and Ezra the priest the scribe, and the Levites who taught the people, said to all the people, This day is holy to YHWH your God; don't mourn, nor weep. For all the people wept, when they heard the words of the law.
10. Then he said to them, Go your way, eat the fat, and drink the sweet, and send portions to him for whom nothing is prepared; for this day is holy to our YHWH. Don't be grieved; for the joy of YHWH is your strength.
11. So the Levites stilled all the people, saying, Hold your peace, for the day is holy; neither be you grieved.
12. All the people went their way to eat, and to drink, and to send portions, and to make great mirth, because they had understood the words that were declared to them.
13. On the second day were gathered together the heads of fathers' [houses] of all the people, the priests, and the Levites, to Ezra the scribe, even to give attention to the words of the law.
14. They found written in the law, how that YHWH had commanded by Moshe, that the children of Israel should dwell in booths in the feast of the seventh month;
15. and that they should publish and proclaim in all their cities, and in Yerushalayim, saying, Go forth to the mountain, and get olive branches, and branches of wild olive, and myrtle branches, and palm branches, and branches of thick trees, to make booths, as it is written.
16. So the people went forth, and brought them, and made themselves booths, everyone on the roof of their house, and in their courts, and in the courts of the house of Elohim, and in the broad place of the water gate, and in the broad place of the gate of Efrayim.
17. All the assembly of those who were come again out of the captivity made booths, and lived in the booths; for since the days of Jeshua the son of Nun to that day the children of Israel had not done so. There was very great gladness.
18. Also day by day, from the first day to the last day, he read in the book of the law of Elohim. They kept the feast seven days; and on the eighth day was a solemn assembly, according to the ordinance.

Nehemiah 9
1. Now in the twenty-fourth day of this month the children of Israel were assembled with fasting, and with sackcloth, and earth on them.
2. The seed of Israel separated themselves from all foreigners, and stood and confessed their sins, and the iniquities of their fathers.
3. They stood up in their place, and read in the book of the law of YHWH their God a fourth part of the day; and [another] fourth part they confessed, and worshiped YHWH their God.
4. Then stood up on the stairs of the Levites, Jeshua, and Bani, Kadmiel, Shebaniah, Bunni, Sherebiah, Bani, [and] Chenani, and cried with a loud voice to YHWH their God.
5. Then the Levites, Jeshua, and Kadmiel, Bani, Hashabneiah, Sherebiah, Hodiah, Shebaniah, [and] Pethahiah, said, Stand up and bless YHWH your God from everlasting to everlasting; and blessed be your glorious name, which is exalted above all blessing and praise.
6. You are YHWH, even you alone; you have made heavens, the heavens of heavens, with all their army, the earth and all things that are thereon, the seas and all that is in them, and you preserve them all; and the army of heavens worships you.
7. You are YHWH the Elohim, who did choose Abram, and brought him forth out of Ur of the Chaldees, and gave him the name of Avraham,
8. and found his heart faithful before you, and made a covenant with him to give the land of the Canaanite, the Hittite, the Amorite, and the Perizzite, and the Jebusite, and the Girgashite, to give it to his seed, and have performed your words; for you are righteous.
9. You saw the affliction of our fathers in Mitzrayim, and heard their cry by the Red Sea,
10. and shown signs and wonders on Pharaoh, and on all his servants, and on all the people of his land; for you knew that they dealt proudly against them, and did get you a name, as it is this day.
11. You divided the sea before them, so that they went through the midst of the sea on the dry land; and their pursuers you did cast into the depths, as a stone into the mighty waters.
12. Moreover in a pillar of cloud you led them by day; and in a pillar of fire by night, to give them light in the way in which they should go.
13. You came down also on Mount Sinai, and spoke with them from heavens, and gave them right ordinances and true laws, good statutes and commandments,
14. and made known to them your holy Sabbath, and commanded them commandments, and statutes, and a law, by Moshe your servant,
15. and gave them bread from the heavens for their hunger, and brought forth water for them out of the rock for their thirst, and commanded those who they should go in to possess the land which you had sworn to give them.
16. But they and our fathers dealt proudly and hardened their neck, and didn't listen to your commandments,
17. and refused to obey, neither were mindful of your wonders that you did among them, but hardened their neck, and in their rebellion appointed a captain to return to their bondage. But you are an Elohim ready to pardon, gracious and merciful, slow to anger, and abundant in loving kindness, and didn't forsake them.
18. Yes, when they had made them a molten calf, and said, This is your God who brought you up out of Mitzrayim, and had committed awful blasphemies;
19. yet you in your manifold mercies didn't forsake them in the wilderness: the pillar of cloud didn't depart from over them by day, to lead them in the way; neither the pillar of fire by night, to show them light, and the way in which they should go.
20. You gave also your good Ruach to instruct them, and didn't withhold your manna from their mouth, and gave them water for their thirst.
21. Yes, forty years did you sustain them in the wilderness, [and] they lacked nothing; their clothes didn't grow old, and their feet didn't swell.
22. Moreover you gave them kingdoms and peoples, which you did allot after their portions: so they possessed the land of Sihon, even the land of the king of Heshbon, and the land of Og king of Bashan.
23. Their children also multiplied you as the stars of the heavens, and brought them into the land concerning which you did say to their fathers, that they should go in to possess it.
24. So the children went in and possessed the land, and you subdued before them the inhabitants of the land, the Canaanites, and gave them into their hands, with their kings, and the peoples of the land, that they might do with them as they would.
25. They took fortified cities, and a fat land, and possessed houses full of all good things, cisterns hewn out, vineyards, and olive groves, and fruit trees in abundance: so they ate, and were filled, and became fat, and delighted themselves in your great goodness.
26. Nevertheless they were disobedient, and rebelled against you, and cast your law behind their back, and killed your prophets that testified against them to turn them again to you, and they committed awful blasphemies.
27. Therefore you delivered them into the hand of their adversaries, who distressed them: and in the time of their trouble, when they cried to you, you heard from heavens; and according to your manifold mercies you gave them saviors who saved them out of the hand of their adversaries.
28. But after they had rest, they did brokenness again before you; therefore left you them in the hand of their enemies, so that they had the dominion over them: yet when they returned, and cried to you, you heard from heavens; and many times did you deliver them according to your mercies,
29. and testified against them, that you might bring them again to your law. Yet they dealt proudly, and didn't listen to your commandments, but sinned against your ordinances, (which if someone do, they shall live in them), and withdrew the shoulder, and hardened their neck, and would not hear.
30. Yet many years did you bear with them, and testified against them by your Ruach through your prophets: yet would they not give ear: therefore gave you them into the hand of the peoples of the lands.
31. Nevertheless in your manifold mercies you did not make a full end of them, nor forsake them; for you are a gracious and merciful Elohim.
32. Now therefore, our God, the great, the mighty, and the awesome Elohim, who keep covenant and loving kindness, don't let all the travail seem little before you, that has come on us, on our kings, on our princes, and on our priests, and on our prophets, and on our fathers, and on all your people, since the time of the kings of Ashur to this day.
33. However you are just in all that is come on us; for you have dealt truly, but we have done wickedly;
34. neither have our kings, our princes, our priests, nor our fathers, kept your law, nor listened to your commandments and your testimonies with which you did testify against them.
35. For they have not served you in their kingdom, and in your great goodness that you gave them, and in the large and fat land which you gave before them, neither turned they from their wicked works.
36. Behold, we are servants this day, and as for the land that you gave to our fathers to eat the fruit of it and the good of it, behold, we are servants in it.
37. It yields much increase to the kings whom you have set over us because of our sins: also they have power over our bodies, and over our livestock, at their pleasure, and we are in great distress.
38. Yet for all this we make a sure covenant, and write it; and our princes, our Levites, [and] our priests, seal to it.

Nehemiah 10
1. Now those who sealed were: Nehemiah the governor, the son of Hacaliah, and Tzidkiyahu,
2. Seraiah, Azaryah, Yirmeyahu,
3. Pashhur, Amariah, Malchijah,
4. Hattush, Shebaniah, Malluch,
5. Harim, Meremoth, Obadiah,
6. Dani'el, Ginnethon, Baruch,
7. Meshullam, Abijah, Mijamin,
8. Maaziah, Bilgai, Shemaiah; these were the priests.
9. The Levites: namely, Jeshua the son of Azaniah, Binnui of the sons of Henadad, Kadmiel;
10. and their brothers, Shebaniah, Hodiah, Kelita, Pelaiah, Hanan,
11. Mica, Rehob, Hashabiah,
12. Zaccur, Sherebiah, Shebaniah,
13. Hodiah, Bani, Beninu.
14. The chiefs of the people: Parosh, Pahathmoab, Elam, Zattu, Bani,
15. Bunni, Azgad, Bebai,
16. Adonijah, Bigvai, Adin,
17. Ater, Chizkiyahu, Azzur,
18. Hodiah, Hashum, Bezai,
19. Hariph, Anathoth, Nobai,
20. Magpiash, Meshullam, Hezir,
21. Meshezabel, Tzadok, Jaddua,
22. Pelatiah, Hanan, Anaiah,
23. Hoshea, Hananiah, Hasshub,
24. Hallohesh, Pilha, Shobek,
25. Rehum, Hashabnah, Maaseiah,
26. and Ahiah, Hanan, Anan,
27. Malluch, Harim, Baanah.
28. The rest of the people, the priests, the Levites, the porters, the singers, the Nethinim, and all those who had separated themselves from the peoples of the lands to the law of Elohim, their wives, their sons, and their daughters, everyone who had knowledge, and understanding;
29. They joined with their brothers, their nobles, and entered into a curse, and into an oath, to walk in Elohim's law, which was given by Moshe the servant of Elohim, and to observe and do all the commandments of YHWH our YHWH, and his ordinances and his statutes;
30. and that we would not give our daughters to the peoples of the land, nor take their daughters for our sons;
31. and if the peoples of the land bring wares or any grain on the Sabbath day to sell, that we would not buy of them on the Sabbath, or on a holy day; and that we would forego the seventh year, and the exaction of every debt.
32. Also we made ordinances for us, to charge ourselves yearly with the third part of a shekel for the service of the house of our God;
33. for the show bread, and for the continual meal offering, and for the continual burnt offering, for the Sabbaths, for the new moons, for the set feasts, and for the holy things, and for the sin offerings to make atonement for Israel, and for all the work of the house of our God.
34. We cast lots, the priests, the Levites, and the people, for the wood offering, to bring it into the house of our God, according to our fathers' houses, at times appointed, year by year, to burn on the altar of YHWH our God, as it is written in the law;
35. and to bring the first fruits of our ground, and the first fruits of all fruit of all manner of trees, year by year, to the house of YHWH;
36. also the firstborn of our sons, and of our livestock, as it is written in the law, and the firstborn of our herds and of our flocks, to bring to the house of our God, to the priests who minister in the house of our God;
37. and that we should bring the first fruits of our dough, and our wave offerings, and the fruit of all manner of trees, the new wine and the oil, to the priests, to the chambers of the house of our God; and the tithes of our ground to the Levites; for they, the Levites, take the tithes in all the cities of our tillage.
38. The priest the son of Aharon shall be with the Levites, when the Levites take tithes: and the Levites shall bring up the tithe of the tithes to the house of our God, to the chambers, into the treasure house.
39. For the children of Israel and the children of Levi shall bring the wave offering of the grain, of the new wine, and of the oil, to the chambers, where are the vessels of the sanctuary, and the priests who minister, and the porters, and the singers: and we will not forsake the house of our God.

Nehemiah 11
1. The princes of the people lived in Yerushalayim: the rest of the people also cast lots, to bring one of ten to dwell in Yerushalayim the holy city, and nine parts in the [other] cities.
2. The people blessed all the people who willingly offered themselves to dwell in Yerushalayim.
3. Now these are the chiefs of the province who lived in Yerushalayim: but in the cities of Yehudah lived everyone in their possession in their cities, [to wit], Israel, the priests, and the Levites, and the Nethinim, and the children of Shlomo's servants.
4. In Yerushalayim lived certain of the children of Yehudah, and of the children of Binyamin. Of the children of Yehudah: Athaiah the son of Uzziah, the son of Zekharyah, the son of Amariah, the son of Shephatiah, the son of Mahalalel, of the children of Perez;
5. and Maaseiah the son of Baruch, the son of Colhozeh, the son of Hazaiah, the son of Adaiah, the son of Joiarib, the son of Zekharyah, the son of the Shilonite.
6. All the sons of Perez who lived in Yerushalayim were four hundred sixty-eight valiant men.
7. These are the sons of Binyamin: Sallu the son of Meshullam, the son of Joed, the son of Pedaiah, the son of Kolaiah, the son of Maaseiah, the son of Ithiel, the son of Jeshaiah.
8. After him Gabbai, Sallai, nine hundred twenty-eight.
9. Joel the son of Zichri was their overseer; and Yehudah the son of Hassenuah was second over the city.
10. Of the priests: Jedaiah the son of Joiarib, Jachin,
11. Seraiah the son of Hilkiah, the son of Meshullam, the son of Tzadok, the son of Meraioth, the son of Ahitub, the ruler of the house of Elohim,
12. and their brothers who did the work of the house, eight hundred twenty-two; and Adaiah the son of Jeroham, the son of Pelaliah, the son of Amzi, the son of Zekharyah, the son of Pashhur, the son of Malchijah,
13. and his brothers, chiefs of fathers' [houses], two hundred forty-two; and Amashsai the son of Azarel, the son of Ahzai, the son of Meshillemoth, the son of Immer,
14. and their brothers, mighty men of valor, one hundred twenty-eight; and their overseer was Zabdiel, the son of Haggedolim.
15. Of the Levites: Shemaiah the son of Hasshub, the son of Azrikam, the son of Hashabiah, the son of Bunni;
16. and Shabbethai and Jozabad, of the chiefs of the Levites, who had the oversight of the outward business of the house of Elohim;
17. and Mattaniah the son of Mica, the son of Zabdi, the son of Asaph, who was the chief to begin the thanksgiving in prayer, and Bakbukiah, the second among his brothers; and Abda the son of Shammua, the son of Galal, the son of Jeduthun.
18. All the Levites in the holy city were two hundred eighty-four.
19. Moreover the porters, Akkub, Talmon, and their brothers, who kept watch at the gates, were one hundred seventy-two.
20. The residue of Israel, of the priests, the Levites, were in all the cities of Yehudah, everyone in their inheritance.
21. But the Nethinim lived in Ophel: and Ziha and Gishpa were over the Nethinim.
22. The overseer also of the Levites at Yerushalayim was Uzzi the son of Bani, the son of Hashabiah, the son of Mattaniah, the son of Mica, of the sons of Asaph, the singers, over the business of the house of Elohim.
23. For there was a commandment from the king concerning them, and a settled provision for the singers, as every day required.
24. Pethahiah the son of Meshezabel, of the children of Zerah the son of Yehudah, was at the king's hand in all matters concerning the people.
25. As for the villages, with their fields, some of the children of Yehudah lived in Kiriath Arba and the towns of it, and in Dibon and the towns of it, and in Jekabzeel and the villages of it,
26. and in Jeshua, and in Moladah, and Beth Pelet,
27. and in Hazar Shual, and in Be'er Sheva and the towns of it,
28. and in Ziklag, and in Meconah and in the towns of it,
29. and in En Rimmon, and in Zorah, and in Jarmuth,
30. Zanoah, Adullam, and their villages, Lachish and the fields of it, Azekah and the towns of it. So they encamped from Be'er Sheva to the valley of Hinnom.
31. The children of Binyamin also [lived] from Geba [onward], at Michmash and Aija, and at Beit El and the towns of it,
32. at Anathoth, Nob, Ananiah,
33. Hazor, Ramah, Gittaim,
34. Hadid, Zeboim, Neballat,
35. Lod, and Ono, the valley of craftsmen.
36. Of the Levites, certain divisions in Yehudah [were joined] to Binyamin.

Nehemiah 12
1. Now these are the priests and the Levites who went up with Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel, and Jeshua: Seraiah, Yirmeyahu, Ezra,
2. Amariah, Malluch, Hattush,
3. Shecaniah, Rehum, Meremoth,
4. Iddo, Ginnethoi, Abijah,
5. Mijamin, Maadiah, Bilgah,
6. Shemaiah, and Joiarib, Jedaiah.
7. Sallu, Amok, Hilkiah, Jedaiah. These were the chiefs of the priests and of their brothers in the days of Jeshua.
8. Moreover the Levites: Jeshua, Binnui, Kadmiel, Sherebiah, Yehudah, [and] Mattaniah, who was over the thanksgiving, he and his brothers.
9. Also Bakbukiah and Unno, their brothers, were over against them according to their offices.
10. Jeshua became the father of Joiakim, and Joiakim became the father of Eliashib, and Eliashib became the father of Joiada,
11. and Joiada became the father of Yonatan, and Yonatan became the father of Jaddua.
12. In the days of Joiakim were priests, heads of fathers' [houses]: of Seraiah, Meraiah; of Yirmeyahu, Hananiah;
13. of Ezra, Meshullam; of Amariah, Jehohanan;
14. of Malluchi, Yonatan; of Shebaniah, Yosef;
15. of Harim, Adna; of Meraioth, Helkai;
16. of Iddo, Zekharyah; of Ginnethon, Meshullam;
17. of Abijah, Zichri; of Miniamin, of Moadiah, Piltai;
18. of Bilgah, Shammua; of Shemaiah, Jehonathan;
19. and of Joiarib, Mattenai; of Jedaiah, Uzzi;
20. of Sallai, Kallai; of Amok, Eber;
21. of Hilkiah, Hashabiah; of Jedaiah, Nethanel.
22. As for the Levites, in the days of Eliashib, Joiada, and Johanan, and Jaddua, there were recorded the heads of fathers' [houses]; also the priests, in the reign of Darius the Persian.
23. The sons of Levi, heads of fathers' [houses], were written in the book of the chronicles, even until the days of Johanan the son of Eliashib.
24. The chiefs of the Levites: Hashabiah, Sherebiah, and Jeshua the son of Kadmiel, with their brothers over against them, to praise and give thanks, according to the commandment of Dawid the person of Elohim, watch next to watch.
25. Mattaniah, and Bakbukiah, Obadiah, Meshullam, Talmon, Akkub, were porters keeping the watch at the storehouses of the gates.
26. These were in the days of Joiakim the son of Jeshua, the son of Jozadak, and in the days of Nehemiah the governor, and of Ezra the priest the scribe.
27. At the dedication of the wall of Yerushalayim they sought the Levites out of all their places, to bring them to Yerushalayim, to keep the dedication with gladness, both with giving thanks, and with singing, with cymbals, stringed instruments, and with harps.
28. The sons of the singers gathered themselves together, both out of the plain round about Yerushalayim, and from the villages of the Netophathites;
29. also from Beth Gilgal, and out of the fields of Geba and Azmaveth: for the singers had built them villages round about Yerushalayim.
30. The priests and the Levites purified themselves; and they purified the people, and the gates, and the wall.
31. Then I brought up the princes of Yehudah on the wall, and appointed two great companies who gave thanks and went in procession. [One went] on the right hand on the wall toward the dung gate;
32. and after them went Hoshaiah, and half of the princes of Yehudah,
33. and Azaryah, Ezra, and Meshullam,
34. Yehudah, and Binyamin, and Shemaiah, and Yirmeyahu,
35. and certain of the priests' sons with trumpets: Zekharyah the son of Yonatan, the son of Shemaiah, the son of Mattaniah, the son of Micaiah, the son of Zaccur, the son of Asaph;
36. and their brothers, Shemaiah, and Azarel, Milalai, Gilalai, Maai, Nethanel, and Yehudah, Hanani, with the musical instruments of Dawid the person of Elohim; and Ezra the scribe was before them.
37. By the spring gate, and straight before them, they went up by the stairs of the city of Dawid, at the ascent of the wall, above the house of Dawid, even to the water gate eastward.
38. The other company of those who gave thanks went to meet them, and I after them, with the half of the people, on the wall, above the tower of the furnaces, even to the broad wall,
39. and above the gate of Efrayim, and by the old gate, and by the fish gate, and the tower of Hananel, and the tower of Hammeah, even to the sheep gate: and they stood still in the gate of the guard.
40. So stood the two companies of those who gave thanks in the house of Elohim, and I, and the half of the rulers with me;
41. and the priests, Eliakim, Maaseiah, Miniamin, Micaiah, Elioenai, Zekharyah, and Hananiah, with trumpets;
42. and Maaseiah, and Shemaiah, and Eleazar, and Uzzi, and Jehohanan, and Malchijah, and Elam, and Ezer. The singers sang loud, with Jezrahiah their overseer.
43. They offered great sacrifices that day, and rejoiced; for Elohim had made them rejoice with great joy; and the women also and the children rejoiced: so that the joy of Yerushalayim was heard even afar off.
44. On that day were men appointed over the chambers for the treasures, for the wave offerings, for the first fruits, and for the tithes, to gather into them, according to the fields of the cities, the portions appointed by the law for the priests and Levites: for Yehudah rejoiced for the priests and for the Levites who waited.
45. They kept the charge of their God, and the charge of the purification, and [so did] the singers and the porters, according to the commandment of Dawid, and of Shlomo his son.
46. For in the days of Dawid and Asaph of old there was a chief of the singers, and songs of praise and thanksgiving to Elohim.
47. All Israel in the days of Zerubbabel, and in the days of Nehemiah, gave the portions of the singers and the porters, as every day required: and they set apart [that which was] for the Levites; and the Levites set apart [that which was] for the sons of Aharon.

Nehemiah 13
1. On that day they read in the book of Moshe in the audience of the people; and therein was found written, that an Ammonite and a Moabite should not enter into the assembly of Elohim forever,
2. because they didn't meet the children of Israel with bread and with water, but hired Bil'am against them, to curse them: however our God turned the curse into a blessing.
3. It came to pass, when they had heard the law, that they separated from Israel all the mixed multitude.
4. Now before this, Eliashib the priest, who was appointed over the chambers of the house of our God, being allied to Tobiah,
5. had prepared for him a great chamber, where before they laid the meal offerings, the frankincense, and the vessels, and the tithes of the grain, the new wine, and the oil, which were given by commandment to the Levites, and the singers, and the porters; and the wave offerings for the priests.
6. But in all this [time] I was not at Yerushalayim; for in the two and thirtieth year of Artaxerxes king of Bavel I went to the king: and after certain days asked I leave of the king,
7. and I came to Yerushalayim, and understood the brokenness that Eliashib had done for Tobiah, in preparing him a chamber in the courts of the house of Elohim.
8. It grieved me sore: therefore I cast forth all the household stuff of Tobiah out of the chamber.
9. Then I commanded, and they cleansed the chambers: and there brought I again the vessels of the house of Elohim, with the meal offerings and the frankincense.
10. I perceived that the portions of the Levites had not been given them; so that the Levites and the singers, who did the work, were fled everyone to their field.
11. Then contended I with the rulers, and said, Why is the house of Elohim forsaken? I gathered them together, and set them in their place.
12. Then brought all Yehudah the tithe of the grain and the new wine and the oil to the treasuries.
13. I made treasurers over the treasuries, Shelemiah the priest, and Tzadok the scribe, and of the Levites, Pedaiah: and next to them was Hanan the son of Zaccur, the son of Mattaniah; for they were counted faithful, and their business was to distribute to their brothers.
14. Remember me, my God, concerning this, and don't wipe out my good deeds that I have done for the house of my God, and for the observances of it.
15. In those days saw I in Yehudah some men treading winepresses on the Sabbath, and bringing in sheaves, and lading donkeys [therewith]; as also wine, grapes, and figs, and all manner of burdens, which they brought into Yerushalayim on the Sabbath day: and I testified [against them] in the day in which they sold food.
16. There lived men of Tzor also therein, who brought in fish, and all manner of wares, and sold on the Sabbath to the children of Yehudah, and in Yerushalayim.
17. Then I contended with the nobles of Yehudah, and said to them, What broken thing is this that you do, and profane the Sabbath day?
18. Didn't your fathers do thus, and did not our God bring all this brokenness on us, and on this city? yet you bring more wrath on Israel by profaning the Sabbath.
19. It came to pass that, when the gates of Yerushalayim began to be dark before the Sabbath, I commanded that the doors should be shut, and commanded that they should not be opened until after the Sabbath: and some of my servants set I over the gates, that there should no burden be brought in on the Sabbath day.
20. So the merchants and sellers of all kind of wares lodged outside of Yerushalayim once or twice.
21. Then I testified against them, and said to them, Why lodge you about the wall? if you do so again, I will lay hands on you. From that time forth came they no more on the Sabbath.
22. I commanded the Levites that they should purify themselves, and that they should come and keep the gates, to sanctify the Sabbath day. Remember to me, my God, this also, and spare me according to the greatness of your loving kindness.
23. In those days also saw I the Jews who had married women of Ashdod, of Ammon, [and] of Moab:
24. and their children spoke half in the speech of Ashdod, and could not speak in the Jews' language, but according to the language of each people.
25. I contended with them, and cursed them, and struck certain of them, and plucked off their hair, and made them swear by Elohim, [saying], You shall not give your daughters to their sons, nor take their daughters for your sons, or for yourselves.
26. Did not Shlomo king of Israel sin by these things? yet among many nations was there no king like him, and he was beloved of his God, and Elohim made him king over all Israel: nevertheless even him did foreign women cause to sin.
27. Shall we then listen to you to do all this great brokenness, to trespass against our God in marrying foreign women?
28. One of the sons of Joiada, the son of Eliashib the high priest, was son-in-law to Sanballat the Horonite: therefore I chased him from me.
29. Remember them, my God, because they have defiled the priesthood, and the covenant of the priesthood, and of the Levites.
30. Thus cleansed I them from all foreigners, and appointed charges for the priests and for the Levites, everyone in their work;
31. and for the wood offering, at times appointed, and for the first fruits. Remember me, my God, for good.

Esther 1
1. Now it happened in the days of Ahasuerus (this is Ahasuerus who reigned from India even to Ethiopia, over one hundred twenty-seven provinces),
2. that in those days, when the King Ahasuerus sat on the throne of his kingdom, which was in Shushan the palace,
3. in the third year of his reign, he made a feast for all his princes and his servants; the power of Paras and Media, the nobles and princes of the provinces, being before him.
4. He displayed the riches of his glorious kingdom and the honor of his excellent majesty many days, even one hundred eighty days.
5. When these days were fulfilled, the king made a seven day feast for all the people who were present in Shushan the palace, both great and small, in the court of the garden of the king's palace.
6. There were hangings of white, green, and blue material, fastened with cords of fine linen and purple to silver rings and marble pillars. The couches were of gold and silver, on a pavement of red, white, yellow, and black marble.
7. They gave them drinks in golden vessels of various kinds, including royal wine in abundance, according to the bounty of the king.
8. In accordance with the law, the drinking was not compulsory; for so the king had instructed all the officials of their house, that they should do according to everyone's pleasure.
9. Also Vashti the queen made a feast for the women in the royal house which belonged to King Ahasuerus.
10. On the seventh day, when the heart of the king was merry with wine, he commanded Mehuman, Biztha, Harbona, Bigtha, and Abagtha, Zethar, and Carcass, the seven eunuchs who served in the presence of Ahasuerus the king,
11. to bring Vashti the queen before the king with the royal crown, to show the people and the princes her beauty; for she was beautiful.
12. But the queen Vashti refused to come at the king's commandment by the eunuchs. Therefore the king was very angry, and his anger burned in him.
13. Then the king said to the wise people, who knew the times, (for it was the king's custom to consult those who knew law and judgment;
14. and the next to him were Carshena, Shethar, Admatha, Tarshish, Meres, Marsena, and Memucan, the seven princes of Paras and Media, who saw the king's face, and sat first in the kingdom),
15. "What shall we do to the queen Vashti according to law, because she has not done the bidding of the King Ahasuerus by the eunuchs?"
16. Memucan answered before the king and the princes, "Vashti the queen has not done wrong to just the king, but also to all the princes, and to all the people who are in all the provinces of the King Ahasuerus.
17. For this deed of the queen will become known to all women, causing them to show contempt for their husbands, when it is reported, 'King Ahasuerus commanded Vashti the queen to be brought in before him, but she didn't come.'
18. Today, the princesses of Paras and Media who have heard of the queen's deed will tell all the king's princes. This will cause much contempt and wrath.
19. If it please the king, let a royal commandment go from him, and let it be written among the laws of the Persians and the Medes, so that it cannot be altered, that Vashti may never again come before King Ahasuerus; and let the king give her royal estate to another who is better than she.
20. When the king's decree which he shall make is published throughout all his kingdom (for it is great), all the wives will give their husbands honor, both great and small."
21. This advice pleased the king and the princes, and the king did according to the word of Memucan:
22. for they sent letters into all the king's provinces, into every province according to its writing, and to every people in their language, that everyone should rule their own house, speaking in the language of their own people.

Esther 2
1. After these things, when the wrath of King Ahasuerus was pacified, he remembered Vashti, and what she had done, and what was decreed against her.
2. Then the king's servants who served him said, "Let beautiful young virgins be sought for the king.
3. Let the king appoint officers in all the provinces of his kingdom, that they may gather together all the beautiful young virgins to the citadel of Susa, to the women's house, to the custody of Hegai the king's eunuch, keeper of the women. Let cosmetics be given them;
4. and let the maiden who pleases the king be queen instead of Vashti." The thing pleased the king, and he did so.
5. There was a certain Jew in the citadel of Susa, whose name was Mordekhai, the son of Jair, the son of Shimei, the son of Kish, a Benjamite,
6. who had been carried away from Yerushalayim with the captives who had been carried away with Jeconiah king of Yehudah, whom Nebuchadnezzar the king of Bavel had carried away.
7. He brought up Hadassah, that is, Esther, his uncle's daughter; for she had neither father nor mother. The maiden was fair and beautiful; and when her father and mother were dead, Mordekhai took her for his own daughter.
8. So it happened, when the king's commandment and his decree was heard, and when many maidens were gathered together to the citadel of Susa, to the custody of Hegai, that Esther was taken into the king's house, to the custody of Hegai, keeper of the women.
9. The maiden pleased him, and she obtained kindness from him. He quickly gave her cosmetics and her portions of food, and the seven choice maidens who were to be given her out of the king's house. He moved her and her maidens to the best place in the women's house.
10. Esther had not made known her people nor her relatives, because Mordekhai had instructed her that she should not make it known.
11. Mordekhai walked every day in front of the court of the women's house, to find out how Esther did, and what would become of her.
12. Each young woman's turn came to go in to King Ahasuerus after her purification for twelve months (for so were the days of their purification accomplished, six months with oil of myrrh, and six months with sweet fragrances and with preparations for beautifying women).
13. The young woman then came to the king like this: whatever she desired was given her to go with her out of the women's house to the king's house.
14. In the evening she went, and on the next day she returned into the second women's house, to the custody of Shaashgaz, the king's eunuch, who kept the concubines. She came in to the king no more, unless the king delighted in her, and she was called by name.
15. Now when the turn of Esther, the daughter of Abihail the uncle of Mordekhai, who had taken her for his daughter, came to go in to the king, she required nothing but what Hegai the king's eunuch, the keeper of the women, advised. Esther obtained favor in the sight of all those who looked at her.
16. So Esther was taken to King Ahasuerus into his royal house in the tenth month, which is the month Tebeth, in the seventh year of his reign.
17. The king loved Esther more than all the women, and she obtained favor and kindness in his sight more than all the virgins; so that he set the royal crown on her head, and made her queen instead of Vashti.
18. Then the king made a great feast for all his princes and his servants, even Esther's feast; and he proclaimed a holiday in the provinces, and gave gifts according to the king's bounty.
19. When the virgins were gathered together the second time, Mordekhai was sitting in the king's gate.
20. Esther had not yet made known her relatives nor her people, as Mordekhai had charged her; for Esther obeyed Mordekhai, like she did when she was brought up by him.
21. In those days, while Mordekhai was sitting in the king's gate, two of the king's eunuchs, Bigthan and Teresh, who were doorkeepers, were angry, and sought to lay hands on the King Ahasuerus.
22. This thing became known to Mordekhai, who informed Esther the queen; and Esther informed the king in Mordekhai's name.
23. When this matter was investigated, and it was found to be so, they were both hanged on a tree; and it was written in the book of the chronicles in the king's presence.

Esther 3
1. After these things King Ahasuerus promoted Haman the son of Hammedatha the Agagite, and advanced him, and set his seat above all the princes who were with him.
2. All the king's servants who were in the king's gate bowed down, and paid homage to Haman; for the king had so commanded concerning him. But Mordekhai didn't bow down or pay him homage.
3. Then the king's servants, who were in the king's gate, said to Mordekhai, "Why do you disobey the king's commandment?"
4. Now it came to pass, when they spoke daily to him, and he didn't listen to them, that they told Haman, to see whether Mordekhai's reason would stand; for he had told them that he was a Jew.
5. When Haman saw that Mordekhai didn't bow down, nor pay him homage, Haman was full of wrath.
6. But he scorned the thought of laying hands on Mordekhai alone, for they had made known to him Mordekhai's people. Therefore Haman sought to destroy all the Jews who were throughout the whole kingdom of Ahasuerus, even the Mordekhai's people.
7. In the first month, which is the month Nisan, in the twelfth year of King Ahasuerus, they cast Pur, that is, the lot, before Haman from day to day, and from month to month, and chose the twelfth month, which is the month Adar.
8. Haman said to King Ahasuerus, "There is a certain people scattered abroad and dispersed among the peoples in all the provinces of your kingdom, and their laws are different than other people's. They don't keep the king's laws. Therefore it is not for the king's profit to allow them to remain.
9. If it pleases the king, let it be written that they be destroyed; and I will pay ten thousand talents of silver into the hands of those who are in charge of the king's business, to bring it into the king's treasuries."
10. The king took his ring from his hand, and gave it to Haman the son of Hammedatha the Agagite, the Jews' enemy.
11. The king said to Haman, "The silver is given to you, the people also, to do with them as it seems good to you."
12. Then the king's scribes were called in on the first month, on the thirteenth day of the month; and all that Haman commanded was written to the king's satraps, and to the governors who were over every province, and to the princes of every people, to every province according its writing, and to every people in their language. It was written in the name of King Ahasuerus, and it was sealed with the king's ring.
13. Letters were sent by couriers into all the king's provinces, to destroy, to kill, and to cause to perish, all Jews, both young and old, little children and women, in one day, even on the thirteenth day of the twelfth month, which is the month Adar, and to plunder their possessions.
14. A copy of the letter, that the decree should be given out in every province, was published to all the peoples, that they should be ready against that day.
15. The couriers went forth in haste by the king's commandment, and the decree was given out in the citadel of Susa. The king and Haman sat down to drink; but the city of Shushan was perplexed.

Esther 4
1. Now when Mordekhai found out all that was done, Mordekhai tore his clothes, and put on sackcloth with ashes, and went out into the midst of the city, and wailed loudly and a bitterly.
2. They came even before the king's gate, for no one is allowed inside the king's gate clothed with sackcloth.
3. In every province, wherever the king's commandment and his decree came, there was great mourning among the Jews, and fasting, and weeping, and wailing; and many lay in sackcloth and ashes.
4. Esther's maidens and her eunuchs came and told her this, and the queen was exceedingly grieved. She sent clothing to Mordekhai, to replace his sackcloth; but he didn't receive it.
5. Then Esther called for Hathach, one of the king's eunuchs, whom he had appointed to attend her, and commanded him to go to Mordekhai, to find out what this was, and why it was.
6. So Hathach went out to Mordekhai, to city square which was before the king's gate.
7. Mordekhai told him of all that had happened to him, and the exact sum of the money that Haman had promised to pay to the king's treasuries for the destruction of the Jews.
8. He also gave him the copy of the writing of the decree that was given out in Shushan to destroy them, to show it to Esther, and to declare it to her, and to urge her to go in to the king, to make supplication to him, and to make request before him, for her people.
9. Hathach came and told Esther the words of Mordekhai.
10. Then Esther spoke to Hathach, and gave him a message to Mordekhai:
11. "All the king's servants, and the people of the king's provinces, know, that whoever, whether man or woman, comes to the king into the inner court without being called, there is one law for them, that they be put to death, except those to whom the king might hold out the golden scepter, that they may live. I have not been called to come in to the king these thirty days."
12. They told to Mordekhai Esther's words.
13. Then Mordekhai asked them return answer to Esther, "Don't think to yourself that you will escape in the king's house any more than all the Jews.
14. For if you remain silent now, then relief and deliverance will come to the Jews from another place, but you and your father's house will perish. Who knows if you haven't come to the kingdom for such a time as this?"
15. Then Esther asked them to answer Mordekhai,
16. "Go, gather together all the Jews who are present in Shushan, and fast for me, and neither eat nor drink three days, night or day. I and my maidens will also fast the same way. Then I will go in to the king, which is against the law; and if I perish, I perish."
17. So Mordekhai went his way, and did according to all that Esther had commanded him.

Esther 5
1. Now it happened on the third day that Esther put on her royal clothing, and stood in the inner court of the king's house, next to the king's house. The king sat on his royal throne in the royal house, next to the entrance of the house.
2. When the king saw Esther the queen standing in the court, she obtained favor in his sight; and the king held out to Esther the golden scepter that was in his hand. So Esther came near, and touched the top of the scepter.
3. Then the king asked her, "What would you like, queen Esther? What is your request? It shall be given you even to the half of the kingdom."
4. Esther said, "If it seems good to the king, let the king and Haman come today to the banquet that I have prepared for him."
5. Then the king said, "Bring Haman quickly, so that it may be done as Esther has said." So the king and Haman came to the banquet that Esther had prepared.
6. The king said to Esther at the banquet of wine, "What is your petition? It shall be granted you. What is your request? Even to the half of the kingdom it shall be performed."
7. Then Esther answered and said, "My petition and my request is this.
8. If I have found favor in the sight of the king, and if it please the king to grant my petition and to perform my request, let the king and Haman come to the banquet that I will prepare for them, and I will do tomorrow as the king has said."
9. Then Haman went out that day joyful and glad of heart, but when Haman saw Mordekhai in the king's gate, that he didn't stand up nor move for him, he was filled with wrath against Mordekhai.
10. Nevertheless Haman restrained himself, and went home. There, he sent and called for his friends and Zeresh his wife.
11. Haman recounted to them the glory of his riches, the multitude of his children, all the things in which the king had promoted him, and how he had advanced him above the princes and servants of the king.
12. Haman also said, "Yes, Esther the queen let no one come in with the king to the banquet that she had prepared but myself; and tomorrow I am also invited by her together with the king.
13. Yet all this avails me nothing, so long as I see Mordekhai the Jew sitting at the king's gate."
14. Then Zeresh his wife and all his friends said to him, "Let a gallows be made fifty cubits high, and in the morning speak to the king about hanging Mordekhai on it. Then go in merrily with the king to the banquet." This pleased Haman, so he had the gallows made.

Esther 6
1. On that night, the king couldn't sleep. He commanded the book of records of the chronicles to be brought, and they were read to the king.
2. It was found written that Mordekhai had told of Bigthana and Teresh, two of the king's eunuchs, who were doorkeepers, who had tried to lay hands on the King Ahasuerus.
3. The king said, "What honor and dignity has been bestowed on Mordekhai for this?" Then the king's servants who attended him said, "Nothing has been done for him."
4. The king said, "Who is in the court?" Now Haman had come into the outer court of the king's house, to speak to the king about hanging Mordekhai on the gallows that he had prepared for him.
5. The king's servants said to him, "Behold, Haman stands in the court." The king said, "Let him come in."
6. So Haman came in. The king said to him, "What shall be done to the person whom the king delights to honor?" Now Haman said in his heart, "Who would the king delight to honor more than myself?"
7. Haman said to the king, "For the person whom the king delights to honor,
8. let royal clothing be brought which the king uses to wear, and the horse that the king rides on, and on the head of which a crown royal is set.
9. Let the clothing and the horse be delivered to the hand of one of the king's most noble princes, that they may array the person whom the king delights to honor with them, and have him ride on horseback through the city square, and proclaim before him, 'Thus shall it be done to the person whom the king delights to honor!'"
10. Then the king said to Haman, "Hurry and take the clothing and the horse, as you have said, and do this for Mordekhai the Jew, who sits at the king's gate. Let nothing fail of all that you have spoken."
11. Then Haman took the clothing and the horse, and arrayed Mordekhai, and had him ride through the city square, and proclaimed before him, "Thus shall it be done to the person whom the king delights to honor!"
12. Mordekhai came back to the king's gate, but Haman hurried to his house, mourning and having his head covered.
13. Haman recounted to Zeresh his wife and all his friends everything that had happened to him. Then his wise people and Zeresh his wife said to him, "If Mordekhai, before whom you have begun to fall, is of Jewish descent, you will not prevail against him, but you will surely fall before him."
14. While they were yet talking with him, the king's eunuchs came, and hurried to bring Haman to the banquet that Esther had prepared.

Esther 7
1. So the king and Haman came to banquet with Esther the queen.
2. The king said again to Esther on the second day at the banquet of wine, "What is your petition, queen Esther? It shall be granted you. What is your request? Even to the half of the kingdom it shall be performed."
3. Then Esther the queen answered, "If I have found favor in your sight, O king, and if it please the king, let my life be given me at my petition, and my people at my request.
4. For we are sold, I and my people, to be destroyed, to be slain, and to perish. But if we had been sold for bondservants and bondmaids, I would have held my peace, although the adversary could not have compensated for the king's loss."
5. Then King Ahasuerus said to Esther the queen, "Who is they, and where is the one who dared presume in their heart to do so?"
6. Esther said, "An adversary and an enemy, even this wicked Haman!" Then Haman was afraid before the king and the queen.
7. The king arose in his wrath from the banquet of wine and went into the palace garden. Haman stood up to make request for his life to Esther the queen; for he saw that there was brokenness determined against him by the king.
8. Then the king returned out of the palace garden into the place of the banquet of wine; and Haman had fallen on the couch where Esther was. Then the king said, "Will he even assault the queen in front of me in the house?" As the word went out of the king's mouth, they covered Haman's face.
9. Then Harbonah, one of the eunuchs who were with the king said, "Behold, the gallows fifty cubits high, which Haman has made for Mordekhai, who spoke good for the king, is standing at Haman's house." The king said, "Hang him on it!"
10. So they hanged Haman on the gallows that he had prepared for Mordekhai. Then was the king's wrath pacified.

Esther 8
1. On that day, King Ahasuerus gave the house of Haman, the Jews' enemy, to Esther the queen. Mordekhai came before the king; for Esther had told what he was to her.
2. The king took off his ring, which he had taken from Haman, and gave it to Mordekhai. Esther set Mordekhai over the house of Haman.
3. Esther spoke yet again before the king, and fell down at his feet, and begged him with tears to put away the mischief of Haman the Agagite, and his device that he had devised against the Jews.
4. Then the king held out to Esther the golden scepter. So Esther arose, and stood before the king.
5. She said, "If it pleases the king, and if I have found favor in his sight, and the thing seem right to the king, and I am pleasing in his eyes, let it be written to reverse the letters devised by Haman, the son of Hammedatha the Agagite, which he wrote to destroy the Jews who are in all the king's provinces.
6. For how can I endure to see the brokenness that would come to my people? How can I endure to see the destruction of my relatives?"
7. Then King Ahasuerus said to Esther the queen and to Mordekhai the Jew, "See, I have given Esther the house of Haman, and him they have hanged on the gallows, because he laid his hand on the Jews.
8. Write also to the Jews, as it pleases you, in the king's name, and seal it with the king's ring; for the writing which is written in the king's name, and sealed with the king's ring, may not be reversed by anyone."
9. Then the king's scribes were called at that time, in the third month Sivan, on the twenty-third day of the month; and it was written according to all that Mordekhai commanded to the Jews, and to the satraps, and the governors and princes of the provinces which are from India to Ethiopia, one hundred twenty-seven provinces, to every province according to its writing, and to every people in their language, and to the Jews in their writing, and in their language.
10. He wrote in the name of King Ahasuerus, and sealed it with the king's ring, and sent letters by courier on horseback, riding on royal horses that were bread from swift steeds.
11. In those letters, the king granted the Jews who were in every city to gather themselves together, and to defend their life, to destroy, to kill, and to cause to perish, all the power of the people and province that would assault them, their little ones and women, and to plunder their possessions,
12. on one day in all the provinces of King Ahasuerus, on the thirteenth day of the twelfth month, which is the month Adar.
13. A copy of the letter, that the decree should be given out in every province, was published to all the peoples, that the Jews should be ready for that day to avenge themselves on their enemies.
14. So the couriers who rode on royal horses went out, hastened and pressed on by the king's commandment. The decree was given out in the citadel of Susa.
15. Mordekhai went out of the presence of the king in royal clothing of blue and white, and with a great crown of gold, and with a robe of fine linen and purple; and the city of Susa shouted and was glad.
16. The Jews had light, gladness, joy, and honor.
17. In every province, and in every city, wherever the king's commandment and his decree came, the Jews had gladness, joy, a feast, and a good day. Many from among the peoples of the land became Jews; for the fear of the Jews was fallen on them.

Esther 9
1. Now in the twelfth month, which is the month Adar, on the thirteenth day of the month, when the king's commandment and his decree drew near to be put in execution, on the day that the enemies of the Jews hoped to conquer them, (but it was turned out the opposite happened, that the Jews conquered those who hated them),
2. the Jews gathered themselves together in their cities throughout all the provinces of the King Ahasuerus, to lay hands on those who wanted to harm them. No one could withstand them, because the fear of them had fallen on all the people.
3. All the princes of the provinces, the satraps, the governors, and those who did the king's business helped the Jews, because the fear of Mordekhai had fallen on them.
4. For Mordekhai was great in the king's house, and his fame went out throughout all the provinces; for the person Mordekhai grew greater and greater.
5. The Jews struck all their enemies with the stroke of the sword, and with slaughter and destruction, and did what they wanted to those who hated them.
6. In the citadel of Susa, the Jews killed and destroyed five hundred men.
7. They killed Parshandatha, Dalphon, Aspatha,
8. Poratha, Adalia, Aridatha,
9. Parmashta, Arisai, Aridai, and Vaizatha,
10. the ten sons of Haman the son of Hammedatha, the Jew's enemy, but they didn't lay their hand on the plunder.
11. On that day, the number of those who were slain in the citadel of Susa was brought before the king.
12. The king said to Esther the queen, "The Jews have slain and destroyed five hundred men in the citadel of Susa, including the ten sons of Haman; what then have they done in the rest of the king's provinces! Now what is your petition? It shall be granted you. What is your further request? It shall be done."
13. Then Esther said, "If it pleases the king, let it be granted to the Jews who are in Shushan to do tomorrow also according to this day's decree, and let Haman's ten sons be hanged on the gallows."
14. The king commanded this to be done. A decree was given out in Shushan; and they hanged Haman's ten sons.
15. The Jews who were in Shushan gathered themselves together on the fourteenth day also of the month Adar, and killed three hundred men in Shushan; but they didn't lay their hand on the spoil.
16. The other Jews who were in the king's provinces gathered themselves together, defended their lives, had rest from their enemies, and killed seventy-five thousand of those who hated them; but they didn't lay their hand on the plunder.
17. This was done on the thirteenth day of the month Adar; and on the fourteenth day of that month they rested and made it a day of feasting and gladness.
18. But the Jews who were in Shushan assembled together on the thirteenth and on the fourteenth days of the month; and on the fifteenth day of that month, they rested, and made it a day of feasting and gladness.
19. Therefore the Jews of the villages, who live in the unwalled towns, make the fourteenth day of the month Adar a day of gladness and feasting, a good day, and a day of sending presents of food to one another.
20. Mordekhai wrote these things, and sent letters to all the Jews who were in all the provinces of the king Ahasuerus, both near and far,
21. to enjoin them that they should keep the fourteenth and fifteenth days of the month Adar yearly,
22. as the days in which the Jews had rest from their enemies, and the month which was turned to them from sorrow to gladness, and from mourning into a good day; that they should make them days of feasting and gladness, and of sending presents of food to one another, and gifts to the needy.
23. The Jews accepted the custom that they had begun, as Mordekhai had written to them;
24. because Haman the son of Hammedatha, the Agagite, the enemy of all the Jews, had plotted against the Jews to destroy them, and had cast "Pur," that is the lot, to consume them, and to destroy them;
25. but when this became known to the king, he commanded by letters that his wicked device, which he had devised against the Jews, should return on his own head, and that he and his sons should be hanged on the gallows.
26. Therefore they called these days "Purim," from the word "Pur." Therefore because of all the words of this letter, and of that which they had seen concerning this matter, and that which had come to them,
27. the Jews established, and imposed on themselves, and on their descendants, and on all those who joined themselves to them, so that it should not fail, that they would keep these two days according to what was written, and according to its appointed time, every year;
28. and that these days should be remembered and kept throughout every generation, every family, every province, and every city; and that these days of Purim should not fail from among the Jews, nor the memory of them perish from their seed.
29. Then Esther the queen, the daughter of Abihail, and Mordekhai the Jew, wrote with all authority to confirm this second letter of Purim.
30. He sent letters to all the Jews, to the hundred twenty-seven provinces of the kingdom of Ahasuerus, with words of peace and truth,
31. to confirm these days of Purim in their appointed times, as Mordekhai the Jew and Esther the queen had decreed, and as they had imposed upon themselves and their descendants, in the matter of the fastings and their cry.
32. The commandment of Esther confirmed these matters of Purim; and it was written in the book.

Esther 10
1. King Ahasuerus laid a tribute on the land, and on the islands of the sea.
2. All the acts of his power and of his might, and the full account of the greatness of Mordekhai, to which the king advanced him, aren't they written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Media and Paras?
3. For Mordekhai the Jew was next to King Ahasuerus, and great among the Jews, and accepted by the multitude of his brothers, seeking the good of his people, and speaking peace to all his descendants.

Job 1
1. There was a person in the land of Uz, whose name was Job. That man was blameless and upright, and one who revered God, and turned away from harm.
2. There were born to him seven sons and three daughters.
3. His possessions also were seven thousand sheep, three thousand camels, five hundred yoke of oxen, five hundred female donkeys, and a very great household; so that this man was the greatest of all the children of the east.
4. His sons went and held a feast in the house of each one on his birthday; and they sent and called for their three sisters to eat and to drink with them.
5. It was so, when the days of their feasting had run their course, that Job sent and sanctified them, and rose up early in the morning, and offered burnt offerings according to the number of them all. For Job said, "It may be that my sons have sinned, and renounced Elohim in their hearts." Thus did Job continually.
6. Now it happened on the day when the Elohim's sons came to present themselves before YHWH, that the Adversary also came among them.
7. YHWH said to the Adversary, "Where have you come from?" Then the Adversary answered YHWH, and said, "From going back and forth in the earth, and from walking up and down in it."
8. YHWH said to the Adversary, "Have you considered my servant, Job? For there is none like him in the earth, a blameless and an upright man, one who reveres God, and turns away from harm."
9. Then the Adversary answered YHWH, and said, "Does Job revere God for nothing?
10. Haven't you made a hedge around him, and around his house, and around all that he has, on every side? You have blessed the work of his hands, and his substance is increased in the land.
11. But put forth your hand now, and touch all that he has, and he will renounce you to your face."
12. YHWH said to the Adversary, "Behold, all that he has is in your power. Only on himself don't put forth your hand." So the Adversary went forth from the presence of YHWH.
13. It fell on a day when his sons and his daughters were eating and drinking wine in their eldest brother's house,
14. that there came a messenger to Job, and said, "The oxen were plowing, and the donkeys feeding beside them,
15. and the Sabeans attacked, and took them away. Yes, they have killed the servants with the edge of the sword, and I alone have escaped to tell you."
16. While he was still speaking, there also came another, and said, "The fire of Elohim has fallen from the heavens, and has burned up the sheep and the servants, and consumed them, and I alone have escaped to tell you."
17. While he was still speaking, there came also another, and said, "The Chaldeans made three bands, and swept down on the camels, and have taken them away, yes, and killed the servants with the edge of the sword; and I alone have escaped to tell you."
18. While he was still speaking, there came also another, and said, "Your sons and your daughters were eating and drinking wine in their eldest brother's house,
19. and behold, there came a great wind from the wilderness, and struck the four corners of the house, and it fell on the young people, and they are dead. I alone have escaped to tell you."
20. Then Job arose, and tore his robe, and shaved his head, and fell down on the ground, and worshiped.
21. He said, "Naked I came out of my mother's womb, and naked shall I return there. YHWH gave, and YHWH has taken away. Blessed be the name of YHWH."
22. In all this, Job did not sin, nor charge Elohim with wrongdoing.

Job 2
1. Again it happened on the day when the Elohim's sons came to present themselves before YHWH, that the Adversary came also among them to present himself before YHWH.
2. YHWH said to the Adversary, "Where have you come from?" the Adversary answered YHWH, and said, "From going back and forth in the earth, and from walking up and down in it."
3. YHWH said to the Adversary, "Have you considered my servant Job? For there is none like him in the earth, a blameless and an upright man, one who reveres God, and turns away from harm. He still maintains his integrity, although you incited me against him, to ruin him without cause."
4. the Adversary answered YHWH, and said, "Skin for skin. Yes, all that a person has they will give for their life.
5. But put forth your hand now, and touch his bone and his flesh, and he will renounce you to your face."
6. YHWH said to the Adversary, "Behold, he is in your hand. Only spare his life."
7. So the Adversary went forth from the presence of YHWH, and struck Job with painful sores from the sole of his foot to his head.
8. He took for himself a potsherd to scrape himself with, and he sat among the ashes.
9. Then his wife said to him, "Do you still maintain your integrity? Renounce Elohim, and die."
10. But he said to her, "You speak as one of the foolish women would speak. What? Shall we receive good at the hand of Elohim, and shall we not receive brokenness?" In all this Job didn't sin with his lips.
11. Now when Job's three friends heard of all this brokenness that had come on him, they each came from his own place: Eliphaz the Temanite, Bildad the Shuhite, and Zophar the Naamathite, and they made an appointment together to come to sympathize with him and to comfort him.
12. When they lifted up their eyes from a distance, and didn't recognize him, they raised their voices, and wept; and they each tore his robe, and sprinkled dust on their heads toward the heavens.
13. So they sat down with him on the ground seven days and seven nights, and none spoke a word to him, for they saw that his grief was very great.

Job 3
1. After this Job opened his mouth, and cursed the day of his birth.
2. Job answered:
3. "Let the day perish in which I was born, the night which said, 'There is a boy conceived.'
4. Let that day be darkness. Don't let Elohim from above seek for it, neither let the light shine on it.
5. Let darkness and the shadow of death claim it for their own. Let a cloud dwell on it. Let all that makes black the day terrify it.
6. As for that night, let thick darkness seize on it. Let it not rejoice among the days of the year. Let it not come into the number of the months.
7. Behold, let that night be barren. Let no joyful voice come therein.
8. Let them curse it who curse the day, who are ready to rouse up leviathan.
9. Let the stars of the twilight of it be dark. Let it look for light, but have none, neither let it see the eyelids of the morning,
10. because it didn't shut up the doors of my mother's womb, nor did it hide trouble from my eyes.
11. "Why didn't I die from the womb? Why didn't I give up the spirit when my mother bore me?
12. Why did the knees receive me? Or why the breast, that I should suck?
13. For now should I have lain down and been quiet. I should have slept, then I would have been at rest,
14. with kings and counselors of the earth, who built up waste places for themselves;
15. or with princes who had gold, who filled their houses with silver:
16. or as a hidden untimely birth I had not been, as infants who never saw light.
17. There the wicked cease from troubling. There the weary are at rest.
18. There the prisoners are at ease together. They don't hear the voice of the taskmaster.
19. The small and the great are there. The servant is free from his master.
20. "Why is light given to the one who is in misery, life to the bitter in soul,
21. Who long for death, but it doesn't come; and dig for it more than for hidden treasures,
22. who rejoice exceedingly, and are glad, when they can find the grave?
23. Why is light given to a person whose way is hid, whom Elohim has hedged in?
24. For my sighing comes before I eat. My groanings are poured out like water.
25. For the thing which I fear comes on me, That which I am afraid of comes to me.
26. I am not at ease, neither am I quiet, neither have I rest; but trouble comes."

Job 4
1. Then Eliphaz the Temanite answered,
2. "If someone ventures to talk with you, will you be grieved? But who can withhold himself from speaking?
3. Behold, you have instructed many, you have strengthened the weak hands.
4. Your words have supported the one who was falling, You have made firm the feeble knees.
5. But now it is come to you, and you faint. It touches you, and you are troubled.
6. Isn't your piety your confidence? Isn't the integrity of your ways your hope?
7. "Remember, now, whoever perished, being innocent? Or where were the upright cut off?
8. According to what I have seen, those who plow iniquity, and sow trouble, reap the same.
9. By the breath of Elohim they perish. By the blast of his anger are they consumed.
10. The roaring of the lion, and the voice of the fierce lion, the teeth of the young lions, are broken.
11. The old lion perishes for lack of prey. The cubs of the lioness are scattered abroad.
12. "Now a thing was secretly brought to me. My ear received a whisper of it.
13. In thoughts from the visions of the night, when deep sleep falls on men,
14. fear came on me, and trembling, which made all my bones shake.
15. Then a spirit passed before my face. The hair of my flesh stood up.
16. It stood still, but I couldn't discern its appearance. A form was before my eyes. Silence, then I heard a voice, saying,
17. 'Shall mortal man be more just than Elohim? Shall a person be more pure than their Maker?
18. Behold, he puts no trust in his servants. He charges his angels with error.
19. How much more, those who dwell in houses of clay, whose foundation is in the dust, who are crushed before the moth!
20. Between morning and evening they are destroyed. They perish forever without any regarding it.
21. Isn't their tent cord plucked up within them? They die, and that without wisdom.'

Job 5
1. "Call now; is there any who will answer you? To which of the holy ones will you turn?
2. For resentment kills the foolish person, and jealousy kills the simple.
3. I have seen the foolish taking root, but suddenly I cursed his habitation.
4. His children are far from safety. They are crushed in the gate. Neither is there any to deliver them,
5. whose harvest the hungry eats up, and take it even out of the thorns. The snare gapes for their substance.
6. For affliction doesn't come forth from the dust, neither does trouble spring out of the ground;
7. but a person is born to trouble, as the sparks fly upward.
8. "But as for me, I would seek Elohim. I would commit my cause to Elohim,
9. who does great things that can't be fathomed, marvelous things without number;
10. who gives rain on the earth, and sends waters on the fields;
11. so that he sets up on high those who are low, those who mourn are exalted to safety.
12. He frustrates the devices of the crafty, So that their hands can't perform their enterprise.
13. He takes the wise in their own craftiness; the counsel of the cunning is carried headlong.
14. They meet with darkness in the day time, and grope at noonday as in the night.
15. But he saves from the sword of their mouth, even the needy from the hand of the mighty.
16. So the poor has hope, and injustice shuts her mouth.
17. "Behold, happy is the person whom Elohim corrects. Therefore do not despise the chastening of the Almighty.
18. For he wounds, and binds up. He injures, and his hands make whole.
19. He will deliver you in six troubles; yes, in seven there shall no brokenness touch you.
20. In famine he will redeem you from death; in war, from the power of the sword.
21. You shall be hidden from the scourge of the tongue, neither shall you be afraid of destruction when it comes.
22. At destruction and famine you shall laugh, neither shall you be afraid of the animals of the earth.
23. For you shall be in league with the stones of the field. The animals of the field shall be at peace with you.
24. You shall know that your tent is in peace. You shall visit your fold, and shall miss nothing.
25. You shall know also that your seed shall be great, Your offspring as the grass of the earth.
26. You shall come to your grave in a full age, like a shock of grain comes in its season.
27. Look this, we have searched it, so it is. Hear it, and know it for your good."

Job 6
1. Then Job answered,
2. "Oh that my anguish were weighed, and all my calamity laid in the balances!
3. For now it would be heavier than the sand of the seas, therefore have my words been rash.
4. For the arrows of the Almighty are within me. My spirit drinks up their poison. The terrors of Elohim set themselves in array against me.
5. Does the wild donkey bray when he has grass? Or does the ox low over his fodder?
6. Can that which has no flavor be eaten without salt? Or is there any taste in the white of an egg?
7. My soul refuses to touch them. They are as loathsome food to me.
8. "Oh that I might have my request, that Elohim would grant the thing that I long for,
9. even that it would please Elohim to crush me; that he would let loose his hand, and cut me off!
10. Be it still my consolation, yes, let me exult in pain that doesn't spare, that I have not denied the words of the Holy One.
11. What is my strength, that I should wait? What is my end, that I should be patient?
12. Is my strength the strength of stones? Or is my flesh of brass?
13. Isn't it that I have no help in me, That wisdom is driven quite from me?
14. "To the one who is ready to faint, kindness should be shown from their friend; even to the one who forsakes the fear of the Almighty.
15. My brothers have dealt deceitfully as a brook, as the channel of brooks that pass away;
16. Which are black by reason of the ice, in which the snow hides itself.
17. In the dry season, they vanish. When it is hot, they are consumed out of their place.
18. The caravans that travel beside them turn aside. They go up into the waste, and perish.
19. The caravans of Tema looked. The companies of Sheba waited for them.
20. They were distressed because they were confident. They came there, and were confounded.
21. For now you are nothing. You see a terror, and are afraid.
22. Did I say, 'Give to me?' or, 'Offer a present for me from your substance?'
23. or, 'Deliver me from the adversary's hand?' or, 'Redeem me from the hand of the oppressors?'
24. "Teach me, and I will hold my peace. Cause me to understand wherein I have erred.
25. How forcible are words of uprightness! But your reproof, what does it reprove?
26. Do you intend to reprove words, seeing that the speeches of one who is desperate are as wind?
27. Yes, you would even cast lots for the fatherless, and make merchandise of your friend.
28. Now therefore be pleased to look at me, for surely I shall not lie to your face.
29. Please return. Let there be no injustice. Yes, return again. My cause is righteous.
30. Is there injustice on my tongue? Can't my taste discern mischievous things?

Job 7
1. "Isn't a person forced to labor on earth? Aren't his days like the days of a hired hand?
2. As a servant who earnestly desires the shadow, as a hireling who looks for his wages,
3. so am I made to possess months of misery, wearisome nights are appointed to me.
4. When I lie down, I say, 'When shall I arise, and the night be gone?' I toss and turn until the dawning of the day.
5. My flesh is clothed with worms and clods of dust. My skin closes up, and breaks out afresh.
6. My days are swifter than a weaver's shuttle, and are spent without hope.
7. Oh remember that my life is a breath. My eye shall no more see good.
8. The eye of the one who sees me shall see me no more. Your eyes shall be on me, but I shall not be.
9. As the cloud is consumed and vanishes away, so the one who goes down to Sheol shall come up no more.
10. He shall return no more to his house, neither shall his place know him any more.
11. "Therefore I will not keep silent. I will speak in the anguish of my spirit. I will complain in the bitterness of my soul.
12. Am I a sea, or a sea monster, that you put a guard over me?
13. When I say, 'My bed shall comfort me. My couch shall ease my complaint;'
14. then you scare me with dreams, and terrify me through visions:
15. so that my soul chooses strangling, death rather than my bones.
16. I loathe my life. I don't want to live forever. Leave me alone, for my days are but a breath.
17. What is man, that you should magnify him, that you should set your mind on him,
18. that you should visit him every morning, and test him every moment?
19. How long will you not look away from me, nor leave me alone until I swallow down my spittle?
20. If I have sinned, what do I do to you, you watcher of people? Why have you set me as a mark for you, so that I am a burden to myself?
21. Why do you not pardon my disobedience, and take away my iniquity? For now shall I lie down in the dust. You will seek me diligently, but I shall not be."

Job 8
1. Then Bildad the Shuhite answered,
2. "How long will you speak these things? Shall the words of your mouth be a mighty wind?
3. Does Elohim pervert justice? Or does the Almighty pervert righteousness?
4. If your children have sinned against him, He has delivered them into the hand of their disobedience.
5. If you want to seek Elohim diligently, make your supplication to the Almighty.
6. If you were pure and upright, surely now he would awaken for you, and make the habitation of your righteousness prosperous.
7. Though your beginning was small, yet your latter end would greatly increase.
8. "Please inquire of past generations. Find out about the learning of their fathers.
9. (For we are but of yesterday, and know nothing, because our days on earth are a shadow.)
10. Shall they not teach you, tell you, and utter words out of their heart?
11. "Can the papyrus grow up without mire? Can the rushes grow without water?
12. While it is yet in its greenness, not cut down, it withers before any other reed.
13. So are the paths of all who forget Elohim. The hope of the godless man shall perish,
14. Whose confidence shall break apart, Whose trust is a spider's web.
15. He shall lean on his house, but it shall not stand. He shall cling to it, but it shall not endure.
16. He is green before the sun. His shoots go forth over his garden.
17. His roots are wrapped around the rock pile. He sees the place of stones.
18. If he is destroyed from his place, then it shall deny him, saying, 'I have not seen you.'
19. Behold, this is the joy of his way: out of the earth, others shall spring.
20. "Behold, Elohim will not cast away a blameless man, neither will he uphold the people who act from brokenness.
21. He will still fill your mouth with laughter, your lips with shouting.
22. Those who hate you shall be clothed with shame. The tent of the wicked shall be no more."

Job 9
1. Then Job answered,
2. "Truly I know that it is so, but how can man be just with Elohim?
3. If he is pleased to contend with him, he can't answer him one time in a thousand.
4. Elohim, the one who is wise in heart, and mighty in strength: who has hardened himself against him, and prospered?
5. He removes the mountains, and they don't know it, when he overturns them in his anger.
6. He shakes the earth out of its place. Its pillars tremble.
7. He commands the sun, and it doesn't rise, and seals up the stars.
8. He alone stretches out the heavens, and treads on the waves of the sea.
9. He makes the Bear, Orion, and the Pleiades, and the chambers of the south.
10. He does great things past finding out; yes, marvelous things without number.
11. Behold, he goes by me, and I don't see him. He passes on also, but I don't perceive him.
12. Behold, he snatches away. Who can hinder him? Who will ask him, 'What are you doing?'
13. "Elohim will not withdraw his anger. The helpers of Rahab stoop under him.
14. How much less shall I answer him, And choose my words to argue with him?
15. Though I were righteous, yet I wouldn't answer him. I would make supplication to my judge.
16. If I had called, and he had answered me, yet I wouldn't believe that he listened to my voice.
17. For he breaks me with a storm, and multiplies my wounds without cause.
18. He will not allow me to catch my breath, but fills me with bitterness.
19. If it is a matter of strength, behold, he is mighty! If of justice, 'Who,' says he, 'will summon me?'
20. Though I am righteous, my own mouth shall condemn me. Though I am blameless, it shall prove me perverse.
21. I am blameless. I don't regard myself. I despise my life.
22. "It is all the same. Therefore I say he destroys the blameless and the wicked.
23. If the scourge kills suddenly, he will mock at the trial of the innocent.
24. The earth is given into the hand of the wicked. He covers the faces of the judges of it. If not he, then who is it?
25. "Now my days are swifter than a runner. They flee away, they see no good,
26. They have passed away as the swift ships, as the eagle that swoops on the prey.
27. If I say, 'I will forget my complaint, I will put off my sad face, and cheer up;'
28. I am afraid of all my sorrows, I know that you will not hold me innocent.
29. I shall be condemned. Why then do I labor in vain?
30. If I wash myself with snow, and cleanse my hands with lye,
31. yet you will plunge me in the ditch. My own clothes shall abhor me.
32. For they are not a person, as I am, that I should answer him, that we should come together in judgment.
33. There is no umpire between us, that might lay his hand on us both.
34. Let him take his rod away from me. Let his terror not make me afraid;
35. then I would speak, and not fear him, for I am not so in myself.

Job 10
1. "My soul is weary of my life. I will give free course to my complaint. I will speak in the bitterness of my soul.
2. I will tell Elohim, 'Do not condemn me. Show me why you contend with me.
3. Is it good to you that you should oppress, that you should despise the work of your hands, and smile on the counsel of the wicked?
4. Do you have eyes of flesh? Or do you see as man sees?
5. Are your days as the days of mortals, or your years as a person's years,
6. that you inquire after my iniquity, and search after my sin?
7. Although you know that I am not wicked, there is no one who can deliver out of your hand.
8. "'Your hands have framed me and fashioned me altogether, yet you destroy me.
9. Remember, I beg you, that you have fashioned me as clay. Will you bring me into dust again?
10. Haven't you poured me out like milk, and curdled me like cheese?
11. You have clothed me with skin and flesh, and knit me together with bones and sinews.
12. You have granted me life and loving kindness. Your visitation has preserved my spirit.
13. Yet you hid these things in your heart. I know that this is with you:
14. if I sin, then you mark me. You will not acquit me from my iniquity.
15. If I am wicked, woe to me. If I am righteous, I still shall not lift up my head, being filled with disgrace, and conscious of my affliction.
16. If my head is held high, you hunt me like a lion. Again you show yourself powerful to me.
17. You renew your witnesses against me, and increase your indignation on me. Changes and warfare are with me.
18. "'Why, then, have you brought me forth out of the womb? I wish I had given up the spirit, and no eye had seen me.
19. I should have been as though I had not been. I should have been carried from the womb to the grave.
20. Aren't my days few? Cease then. Leave me alone, that I may find a little comfort,
21. before I go where I shall not return from, to the land of darkness and of the shadow of death;
22. the land dark as midnight, of the shadow of death, without any order, where the light is as midnight.'"

Job 11
1. Then Zophar, the Naamathite, answered,
2. "Shouldn't the multitude of words be answered? Should a person full of talk be justified?
3. Should your boastings make men hold their peace? When you mock, shall no one make you ashamed?
4. For you say, 'My doctrine is pure. I am clean in your eyes.'
5. But oh that Elohim would speak, and open his lips against you,
6. that he would show you the secrets of wisdom! For true wisdom has two sides. Know therefore that Elohim exacts of you less than your iniquity deserves.
7. "Can you fathom the mystery of Elohim? Or can you probe the limits of the Almighty?
8. They are high as heavens. What can you do? They are deeper than Sheol. What can you know?
9. Its measure is longer than the earth, and broader than the sea.
10. If he passes by, or confines, or convenes a court, then who can oppose him?
11. For he knows false men. He sees iniquity also, even though he doesn't consider it.
12. An empty-headed man becomes wise when someone is born as a wild donkey's colt.
13. "If you set your heart aright, stretch out your hands toward him.
14. If iniquity is in your hand, put it far away. Don't let unrighteousness dwell in your tents.
15. Surely then shall you lift up your face without spot; Yes, you shall be steadfast, and shall not fear:
16. for you shall forget your misery. You shall remember it as waters that are passed away.
17. Life shall be clearer than the noonday. Though there is darkness, it shall be as the morning.
18. You shall be secure, because there is hope. Yes, you shall search, and shall take your rest in safety.
19. Also you shall lie down, and none shall make you afraid. Yes, many shall court your favor.
20. But the eyes of the wicked shall fail. They shall have no way to flee. Their hope shall be the giving up of the spirit."

Job 12
1. Then Job answered,
2. "No doubt, but you are the people, and wisdom shall die with you.
3. But I have understanding as well as you; I am not inferior to you. Yes, who doesn't know such things as these?
4. I am like one who is a joke to their neighbor, I, who called on Elohim, and they answered. The just, the blameless a person is a joke.
5. In the thought of the one who is at ease there is contempt for misfortune. It is ready for them whose foot slips.
6. The tents of robbers prosper. Those who provoke Elohim are secure, who carry their God in their hands.
7. "But ask the animals, now, and they shall teach you; the birds of the heavens, and they shall tell you.
8. Or speak to the earth, and it shall teach you. The fish of the sea shall declare to you.
9. Who doesn't know that in all these, the hand of YHWH has done this,
10. in whose hand is the life of every living thing, and the breath of all humanity?
11. Doesn't the ear try words, even as the palate tastes its food?
12. With aged men is wisdom, in length of days understanding.
13. "With Elohim is wisdom and might. He has counsel and understanding.
14. Behold, he breaks down, and it can't be built again. They imprisons a person, and there can be no release.
15. Behold, he withholds the waters, and they dry up. Again, he sends them out, and they overturn the earth.
16. With him is strength and wisdom. The deceived and the deceiver are his.
17. He leads counselors away stripped. He makes judges fools.
18. He loosens the bond of kings. He binds their waist with a belt.
19. He leads priests away stripped, and overthrows the mighty.
20. He removes the speech of those who are trusted, and takes away the understanding of the elders.
21. He pours contempt on princes, and loosens the belt of the strong.
22. He uncovers deep things out of darkness, and brings out to light the shadow of death.
23. He increases the nations, and he destroys them. He enlarges the nations, and he leads them captive.
24. He takes away understanding from the chiefs of the people of the earth, and causes them to wander in a wilderness where there is no way.
25. They grope in the dark without light. He makes them stagger like a drunken man.

Job 13
1. "Behold, my eye has seen all this. My ear has heard and understood it.
2. What you know, I know also. I am not inferior to you.
3. "Surely I would speak to the Almighty. I desire to reason with Elohim.
4. But you are forgers of lies. You are all physicians of no value.
5. Oh that you would be completely silent! Then you would be wise.
6. Hear now my reasoning. Listen to the pleadings of my lips.
7. Will you speak unrighteously for Elohim, and talk deceitfully for him?
8. Will you show partiality to him? Will you contend for Elohim?
9. Is it good that he should search you out? Or as one deceives a person, will you deceive him?
10. He will surely reprove you if you secretly show partiality.
11. Shall not his majesty make you afraid, And his dread fall on you?
12. Your memorable sayings are proverbs of ashes, Your defenses are defenses of clay.
13. "Be silent, leave me alone, that I may speak. Let come on me what will.
14. Why should I take my flesh in my teeth, and put my life in my hand?
15. Behold, he will kill me. I have no hope. Nevertheless, I will maintain my ways before him.
16. This also shall be my salvation, that a godless person shall not come before him.
17. Hear diligently my speech. Let my declaration be in your ears.
18. See now, I have set my cause in order. I know that I am righteous.
19. Who is the one who will contend with me? For then would I hold my peace and give up the spirit.
20. "Only don't do two things to me; then I will not hide myself from your face:
21. withdraw your hand far from me; and don't let your terror make me afraid.
22. Then call, and I will answer; or let me speak, and you answer me.
23. How many are my iniquities and sins? Make me know my disobedience and my sin.
24. Why hide you your face, and hold me for your enemy?
25. Will you harass a driven leaf? Will you pursue the dry stubble?
26. For you write bitter things against me, and make me inherit the iniquities of my youth:
27. You also put my feet in the stocks, and mark all my paths. You set a bound to the soles of my feet,
28. though I am decaying like a rotten thing, like a garment that is moth-eaten.

Job 14
1. "Man, who is born of a woman, is of few days, and full of trouble.
2. He comes forth like a flower, and is cut down. He also flees like a shadow, and doesn't continue.
3. Do you open your eyes on such a one, and bring me into judgment with you?
4. Who can bring a clean thing out of an unclean? Not one.
5. Seeing his days are determined, the number of his months is with you, and you have appointed his bounds that he can't pass;
6. Look away from him, that he may rest, until he shall accomplish, as a hireling, his day.
7. "For there is hope for a tree, If it is cut down, that it will sprout again, that the tender branch of it will not cease.
8. Though its root grows old in the earth, and its stock dies in the ground,
9. yet through the scent of water it will bud, and put forth boughs like a plant.
10. But man dies, and is laid low. Yes, man gives up the spirit, and where is he?
11. As the waters fail from the sea, and the river wastes and dries up,
12. so man lies down and doesn't rise. Until the heavens are no more, they shall not awake, nor be roused out of their sleep.
13. "Oh that you would hide me in Sheol, that you would keep me secret, until your wrath is past, that you would appoint me a set time, and remember me!
14. If someone dies, shall they live again? All the days of my warfare would I wait, until my release should come.
15. You would call, and I would answer you. You would have a desire to the work of your hands.
16. But now you number my steps. Don't you watch over my sin?
17. My disobedience is sealed up in a bag. You fasten up my iniquity.
18. "But the mountain falling comes to nothing. The rock is removed out of its place;
19. The waters wear the stones. The torrents of it wash away the dust of the earth. So you destroy the hope of man.
20. You forever prevail against him, and he departs. You change his face, and send him away.
21. His sons come to honor, and he doesn't know it. They are brought low, but he doesn't perceive it of them.
22. But his flesh on him has pain, and his soul within him mourns."

Job 15
1. Then Eliphaz the Temanite answered,
2. "Should a wise person answer with vain knowledge, and fill themselves with the east wind?
3. Should he reason with unprofitable talk, or with speeches with which he can do no good?
4. Yes, you do away with fear, and hinder devotion before Elohim.
5. For your iniquity teaches your mouth, and you choose the language of the crafty.
6. Your own mouth condemns you, and not I. Yes, your own lips testify against you.
7. "Are you the first man who was born? Or were you brought forth before the hills?
8. Have you heard the secret counsel of Elohim? Do you limit wisdom to yourself?
9. What do you know, that we don't know? What do you understand, which is not in us?
10. With us are both the gray-headed and the very aged men, much elder than your father.
11. Are the consolations of Elohim too small for you, even the word that is gentle toward you?
12. Why does your heart carry you away? Why do your eyes flash,
13. That you turn your spirit against Elohim, and let such words go out of your mouth?
14. What is man, that he should be clean? What is the one who is born of a woman, that they should be righteous?
15. Behold, he puts no trust in his holy ones. Yes, the heavens are not clean in his sight;
16. how much less one who is abominable and corrupt, a person who drinks iniquity like water!
17. "I will show you, listen to me; that which I have seen I will declare:
18. (Which wise people have told by their fathers, and have not hidden it;
19. to whom alone the land was given, and no stranger passed among them):
20. the broken person writhes in pain all their days, even the number of years that are laid up for the oppressor.
21. A sound of terrors is in his ears. In prosperity the destroyer shall come on him.
22. He doesn't believe that he shall return out of darkness. He is waited for by the sword.
23. He wanders abroad for bread, saying, 'Where is it?' He knows that the day of darkness is ready at his hand.
24. Distress and anguish make him afraid. They prevail against him, as a king ready to the battle.
25. Because he has stretched out his hand against Elohim, and behaves himself proudly against the Almighty;
26. he runs at him with a stiff neck, with the thick shields of his bucklers;
27. because he has covered his face with his fatness, and gathered fat on his thighs.
28. They have lived in desolate cities, in houses which no one inhabited, which were ready to become heaps.
29. He shall not be rich, neither shall his substance continue, neither shall their possessions be extended on the earth.
30. He shall not depart out of darkness. The flame shall dry up his branches. By the breath of Elohim's mouth shall he go away.
31. Let him not trust in emptiness, deceiving himself; for emptiness shall be his reward.
32. It shall be accomplished before his time. His branch shall not be green.
33. He shall shake off his unripe grape as the vine, and shall cast off his flower as the olive tree.
34. For the company of the godless shall be barren, and fire shall consume the tents of bribery.
35. They conceive mischief, and bring forth iniquity. Their heart prepares deceit."

Job 16
1. Then Job answered,
2. "I have heard many such things. You are all miserable comforters!
3. Shall vain words have an end? Or what provokes you that you answer?
4. I also could speak as you do. If your soul were in my soul's place, I could join words together against you, and shake my head at you,
5. but I would strengthen you with my mouth. The solace of my lips would relieve you.
6. "Though I speak, my grief is not subsided. Though I forbear, what am I eased?
7. But now, Elohim, you have surely worn me out. You have made desolate all my company.
8. You have shriveled me up. This is a witness against me. My leanness rises up against me. It testifies to my face.
9. He has torn me in his wrath, and persecuted me. He has gnashed on me with his teeth. My adversary sharpens his eyes on me.
10. They have gaped on me with their mouth. They have struck me on the cheek reproachfully. They gather themselves together against me.
11. Elohim delivers me to the ungodly, and casts me into the hands of the wicked.
12. I was at ease, and he broke me apart. Yes, he has taken me by the neck, and dashed me to pieces. He has also set me up for his target.
13. His archers surround me. He splits my kidneys apart, and does not spare. He pours out my gall on the ground.
14. He breaks me with breach on breach. He runs on me like a giant.
15. I have sewed sackcloth on my skin, and have thrust my horn in the dust.
16. My face is red with weeping. Deep darkness is on my eyelids.
17. Although there is no violence in my hands, and my prayer is pure.
18. "Earth, don't cover my blood. Let my cry have no place to rest.
19. Even now, behold, my witness is in heavens. The one who vouches for me is on high.
20. My friends scoff at me. My eyes pour out tears to Elohim,
21. that they would maintain the right of a person with Elohim, of a child of humanity with their neighbor!
22. For when a few years are come, I shall go the way from whence I shall not return.

Job 17
1. "My spirit is consumed. My days are extinct, And the grave is ready for me.
2. Surely there are mockers with me. My eye dwells on their provocation.
3. "Now give a pledge, be collateral for me with yourself. Who is there who will strike hands with me?
4. For you have hidden their heart from understanding, Therefore shall you not exalt them.
5. The one who denounces their friends for a prey, Even the eyes of their children shall fail.
6. "But he has made me a byword of the people. They spit in my face.
7. My eye also is dim by reason of sorrow. All my members are as a shadow.
8. Upright people shall be astonished at this. The innocent shall stir up himself against the godless.
9. Yet shall the righteous hold on his way. The one who has clean hands shall grow stronger and stronger.
10. But as for you all, come on now again; I shall not find a wise person among you.
11. My days are past, my plans are broken off, as are the thoughts of my heart.
12. They change the night into day, saying 'The light is near' in the presence of darkness.
13. If I look for Sheol as my house, if I have spread my couch in the darkness,
14. If I have said to corruption, 'You are my father;' to the worm, 'My mother,' and 'my sister;'
15. where then is my hope? as for my hope, who shall see it?
16. Shall it go down with me to the gates of Sheol, or descend together into the dust?"

Job 18
1. Then Bildad the Shuhite answered,
2. "How long will you hunt for words? Consider, and afterwards we will speak.
3. Why are we counted as animals, which have become unclean in your sight?
4. You who tear yourself in your anger, shall the earth be forsaken for you? Or shall the rock be removed out of its place?
5. "Yes, the light of the wicked shall be put out, The spark of his fire shall not shine.
6. The light shall be dark in his tent. His lamp above him shall be put out.
7. The steps of his strength shall be shortened. His own counsel shall cast him down.
8. For he is cast into a net by his own feet, and he wanders into its mesh.
9. A snare will take him by the heel. A trap will catch him.
10. A noose is hidden for him in the ground, a trap for him in the way.
11. Terrors shall make him afraid on every side, and shall chase him at his heels.
12. His strength shall be famished. Calamity shall be ready at his side.
13. The members of his body shall be devoured. The firstborn of death shall devour his members.
14. He shall be rooted out of his tent where he trusts. He shall be brought to the king of terrors.
15. There shall dwell in his tent that which is none of his. Sulfur shall be scattered on his habitation.
16. His roots shall be dried up beneath. Above shall his branch be cut off.
17. His memory shall perish from the earth. He shall have no name in the street.
18. He shall be driven from light into darkness, and chased out of the world.
19. He shall have neither son nor grandson among his people, nor any remaining where he sojourned.
20. Those who come after shall be astonished at his day, as those who went before were frightened.
21. Surely such are the dwellings of the unrighteous. This is the place of the one who doesn't know Elohim."

Job 19
1. Then Job answered,
2. "How long will you torment me, and crush me with words?
3. You have reproached me ten times. You aren't ashamed that you attack me.
4. If it is true that I have erred, my error remains with myself.
5. If indeed you will magnify yourselves against me, and plead against me my reproach;
6. know now that Elohim has subverted me, and has surrounded me with his net.
7. "Behold, I cry out of wrong, but I am not heard. I cry for help, but there is no justice.
8. He has walled up my way so that I can't pass, and has set darkness in my paths.
9. He has stripped me of my glory, and taken the crown from my head.
10. He has broken me down on every side, and I am gone. My hope he has plucked up like a tree.
11. He has also kindled his wrath against me. He counts me among his adversaries.
12. His troops come on together, build a siege ramp against me, and encamp around my tent.
13. "He has put my brothers far from me. My acquaintances are wholly estranged from me.
14. My relatives have gone away. My familiar friends have forgotten me.
15. Those who dwell in my house, and my maids, count me for a stranger. I am an alien in their sight.
16. I call to my servant, and he gives me no answer. I beg him with my mouth.
17. My breath is offensive to my wife. I am loathsome to the children of my own mother.
18. Even young children despise me. If I arise, they speak against me.
19. All my familiar friends abhor me. They whom I loved have turned against me.
20. My bones stick to my skin and to my flesh. I have escaped by the skin of my teeth.
21. "Have pity on me, have pity on me, you my friends; for the hand of Elohim has touched me.
22. Why do you persecute me as Elohim, and are not satisfied with my flesh?
23. "Oh that my words were now written! Oh that they were inscribed in a book!
24. That with an iron pen and lead they were engraved in the rock forever!
25. But as for me, I know that my Redeemer lives. In the end, he will stand upon the earth.
26. After my skin is destroyed, then in my flesh shall I see Elohim,
27. Whom I, even I, shall see on my side. My eyes shall see, and not as a stranger. "My heart is consumed within me.
28. If you say, 'How we will persecute him!' because the root of the matter is found in me,
29. be afraid of the sword, for wrath brings the punishments of the sword, that you may know there is a judgment."

Job 20
1. Then Zophar the Naamathite answered,
2. "Therefore do my thoughts give answer to me, even by reason of my haste that is in me.
3. I have heard the reproof which puts me to shame. The spirit of my understanding answers me.
4. Don't you know this from old time, since man was placed on earth,
5. that the triumphing of the wicked is short, the joy of the godless but for a moment?
6. Though his height mount up to the heavens, and his head reach to the clouds,
7. yet he shall perish forever like his own dung. Those who have seen him shall say, 'Where is he?'
8. He shall fly away as a dream, and shall not be found. Yes, he shall be chased away like a vision of the night.
9. The eye which saw him shall see him no more, neither shall his place any more see him.
10. His children shall seek the favor of the poor. His hands shall give back his wealth.
11. His bones are full of his youth, but youth shall lie down with him in the dust.
12. "Though wickedness is sweet in his mouth, though he hide it under his tongue,
13. though he spare it, and will not let it go, but keep it still within his mouth;
14. yet his food in his bowels is turned. It is cobra venom within him.
15. He has swallowed down riches, and he shall vomit them up again. Elohim will cast them out of his belly.
16. He shall suck cobra venom. The viper's tongue shall kill him.
17. He shall not look at the rivers, the flowing streams of honey and butter.
18. That for which he labored he shall restore, and shall not swallow it down. According to the substance that he has gotten, he shall not rejoice.
19. For he has oppressed and forsaken the poor. He has violently taken away a house, and he shall not build it up.
20. "Because he knew no quietness within him, he shall not save anything of that in which he delights.
21. There was nothing left that he didn't devour, therefore his prosperity shall not endure.
22. In the fullness of his sufficiency, distress shall overtake him. The hand of everyone who is in misery shall come on him.
23. When he is about to fill his belly, Elohim will cast the fierceness of his wrath on him. It will rain on him while he is eating.
24. He shall flee from the iron weapon. The bronze arrow shall strike him through.
25. He draws it forth, and it comes out of his body. Yes, the glittering point comes out of his liver. Terrors are on him.
26. All darkness is laid up for his treasures. An unfanned fire shall devour him. It shall consume that which is left in his tent.
27. The heavens shall reveal his iniquity. The earth shall rise up against him.
28. The increase of his house shall depart. They shall rush away in the day of his wrath.
29. This is the portion of a broken person from Elohim, the heritage appointed to him by Elohim."

Job 21
1. Then Job answered,
2. "Listen diligently to my speech. Let this be your consolation.
3. Allow me, and I also will speak; After I have spoken, mock on.
4. As for me, is my complaint to man? Why shouldn't I be impatient?
5. Look at me, and be astonished. Lay your hand on your mouth.
6. When I remember, I am troubled. Horror takes hold of my flesh.
7. "Why do the wicked live, become old, yes, and grow mighty in power?
8. Their child is established with them in their sight, their offspring before their eyes.
9. Their houses are safe from fear, neither is the rod of Elohim upon them.
10. Their bulls breed without fail. Their cows calve, and don't miscarry.
11. They send forth their little ones like a flock. Their children dance.
12. They sing to the tambourine and harp, and rejoice at the sound of the pipe.
13. They spend their days in prosperity. In an instant they go down to Sheol.
14. They tell Elohim, 'Depart from us, for we don't want to know about your ways.
15. What is the Almighty, that we should serve him? What profit should we have, if we pray to him?'
16. Behold, their prosperity is not in their hand. The counsel of the wicked is far from me.
17. "How often is it that the lamp of the wicked is put out, that their calamity comes on them, that Elohim distributes sorrows in his anger?
18. How often is it that they are as stubble before the wind, as chaff that the storm carries away?
19. You say, 'Elohim lays up his iniquity for his children.' Let him recompense it to himself, that he may know it.
20. Let his own eyes see his destruction. Let him drink of the wrath of the Almighty.
21. For what does he care for his house after him, when the number of his months is cut off?
22. "Shall any teach Elohim knowledge, seeing he judges those who are high?
23. One dies in his full strength, being wholly at ease and quiet.
24. His pails are full of milk. The marrow of his bones is moistened.
25. Another dies in bitterness of soul, and never tastes of good.
26. They lie down alike in the dust. The worm covers them.
27. "Behold, I know your thoughts, the devices with which you would wrong me.
28. For you say, 'Where is the house of the prince? Where is the tent in which the wicked lived?'
29. Haven't you asked wayfaring men? Don't you know their evidences,
30. that the brokenness a person is reserved to the day of calamity, That they are led forth to the day of wrath?
31. Who shall declare his way to his face? Who shall repay him what he has done?
32. Yet he will be borne to the grave. People shall keep watch over the tomb.
33. The clods of the valley shall be sweet to him. All people shall draw after him, as there were innumerable before him.
34. So how can you comfort me with nonsense, seeing that in your answers there remains only falsehood?"

Job 22
1. Then Eliphaz the Temanite answered,
2. "Can a person be profitable to Elohim? Surely the one who is wise is profitable to themselves.
3. Is it any pleasure to the Almighty, that you are righteous? Or does it benefit him, that you make your ways perfect?
4. Is it for your piety that he reproves you, that he enters with you into judgment?
5. Isn't your wickedness great? Neither is there any end to your iniquities.
6. For you have taken pledges from your brother for nothing, and stripped the naked of their clothing.
7. You haven't given water to the weary to drink, and you have withheld bread from the hungry.
8. But as for the mighty man, he had the earth. The honorable man, he lived in it.
9. You have sent widows away empty, and the arms of the fatherless have been broken.
10. Therefore snares are round about you. Sudden fear troubles you,
11. or darkness, so that you can not see, and floods of waters cover you.
12. "Isn't Elohim in the heights of heavens? See the height of the stars, how high they are!
13. You say, 'What does Elohim know? Can he judge through the thick darkness?
14. Thick clouds are a covering to him, so that he doesn't see. He walks on the vault of the heavens.'
15. Will you keep the old way, which wicked men have trodden,
16. who were snatched away before their time, whose foundation was poured out as a stream,
17. who said to Elohim, 'Depart from us;' and, 'What can the Almighty do for us?'
18. Yet he filled their houses with good things, but the counsel of the wicked is far from me.
19. The righteous see it, and are glad. The innocent ridicule them,
20. saying, 'Surely those who rose up against us are cut off. The fire has consumed the remnant of them.'
21. "Acquaint yourself with him, now, and be at peace. Thereby good shall come to you.
22. Please receive instruction from his mouth, and lay up his words in your heart.
23. If you return to the Almighty, you shall be built up, if you put away unrighteousness far from your tents.
24. Lay your treasure in the dust, the gold of Ophir among the stones of the brooks.
25. The Almighty will be your treasure, and precious silver to you.
26. For then you will delight yourself in the Almighty, and shall lift up your face to Elohim.
27. You shall make your prayer to him, and he will hear you. You shall pay your vows.
28. You shall also decree a thing, and it shall be established to you. Light shall shine on your ways.
29. When they cast down, you shall say, 'be lifted up.' He will save the humble person.
30. They will even deliver the one who is not innocent. Yes, he shall be delivered through the cleanness of your hands."

Job 23
1. Then Job answered,
2. "Even today my complaint is rebellious. His hand is heavy in spite of my groaning.
3. Oh that I knew where I might find him! That I might come even to his seat!
4. I would set my cause in order before him, and fill my mouth with arguments.
5. I would know the words which he would answer me, and understand what he would tell me.
6. Would he contend with me in the greatness of his power? No, but he would listen to me.
7. There the upright might reason with him, so I should be delivered forever from my judge.
8. "If I go east, he is not there; if west, I can't find him;
9. He works to the north, but I can't see him. He turns south, but I can't catch a glimpse of him.
10. But he knows the way that I take. When he has tried me, I shall come forth like gold.
11. My foot has held fast to his steps. I have kept his way, and not turned aside.
12. I haven't gone back from the commandment of his lips. I have treasured up the words of his mouth more than my necessary food.
13. But he stands alone, and who can oppose him? What his soul desires, even that he does.
14. For he performs that which is appointed for me. Many such things are with him.
15. Therefore I am terrified at his presence. When I consider, I am afraid of him.
16. For Elohim has made my heart faint. The Almighty has terrified me.
17. Because I was not cut off before the darkness, neither did he cover the thick darkness from my face.

Job 24
1. "Why aren't times laid up by the Almighty? Why don't those who know him see his days?
2. There are people who remove the landmarks. They violently take away flocks, and feed them.
3. They drive away the donkey of the fatherless, and they take the widow's ox for a pledge.
4. They turn the needy out of the way. The poor of the earth all hide themselves.
5. Behold, as wild donkeys in the desert, they go forth to their work, seeking diligently for food. The wilderness yields them bread for their children.
6. They cut their provender in the field. They glean the vineyard of the wicked.
7. They lie all night naked without clothing, and have no covering in the cold.
8. They are wet with the showers of the mountains, and embrace the rock for lack of a shelter.
9. There are those who pluck the fatherless from the breast, and take a pledge of the poor,
10. So that they go around naked without clothing. Being hungry, they carry the sheaves.
11. They make oil within the walls of these men. They tread wine presses, and suffer thirst.
12. From out of the populous city, men groan. The soul of the wounded cries out, yet Elohim doesn't regard the folly.
13. "These are of those who rebel against the light. They don't know its ways, nor abide in its paths.
14. The murderer rises with the light. He kills the poor and needy. In the night he is like a thief.
15. The eye also of the adulterer waits for the twilight, saying, 'No eye shall see me.' He disguises his face.
16. In the dark they dig through houses. They shut themselves up in the daytime. They don't know the light.
17. For the morning is to all of them like thick darkness, for they know the terrors of the thick darkness.
18. "They are foam on the surface of the waters. Their portion is cursed in the earth. They don't turn into the way of the vineyards.
19. Drought and heat consume the snow waters, so does Sheol those who have sinned.
20. The womb shall forget him. The worm shall feed sweetly on him. He shall be no more remembered. Unrighteousness shall be broken as a tree.
21. He devours the barren who don't bear. He shows no kindness to the widow.
22. Yet Elohim preserves the mighty by his power. He rises up who has no assurance of life.
23. Elohim gives them security, and they rest in it. His eyes are on their ways.
24. They are exalted; yet a little while, and they are gone. Yes, they are brought low, they are taken out of the way as all others, and are cut off as the tops of the ears of grain.
25. If it isn't so now, who will prove me a liar, and make my speech worth nothing?"

Job 25
1. Then Bildad the Shuhite answered,
2. "Dominion and fear are with him. He makes peace in his high places.
3. Can his armies be counted? On whom does his light not arise?
4. How then can man be just with Elohim? Or how can the one who is born of a woman be clean?
5. Behold, even the moon has no brightness, and the stars are not pure in his sight;
6. How much less man, who is a worm, the child of humanity, who is a worm!"

Job 26
1. Then Job answered,
2. "How have you helped the one who is without power! How have you saved the arm that has no strength!
3. How have you counseled the one who has no wisdom, and plentifully declared sound knowledge!
4. To whom have you uttered words? Whose spirit came forth from you?
5. "Those who are deceased tremble, those beneath the waters and all that live in them.
6. Sheol is naked before Elohim, and Abaddon has no covering.
7. He stretches out the north over empty space, and hangs the earth on nothing.
8. He binds up the waters in his thick clouds, and the cloud is not burst under them.
9. He encloses the face of his throne, and spreads his cloud on it.
10. He has described a boundary on the surface of the waters, and to the confines of light and darkness.
11. The pillars of heavens tremble and are astonished at his rebuke.
12. He stirs up the sea with his power, and by his understanding he strikes through Rahab.
13. By his Ruach the heavens are garnished. His hand has pierced the swift serpent.
14. Behold, these are but the outskirts of his ways. How small a whisper do we hear of him! But the thunder of his power who can understand?"

Job 27
1. Job again took up his parable, and said,
2. "As Elohim lives, who has taken away my right, the Almighty, who has made my soul bitter.
3. (For the length of my life is still in me, and the Ruach of Elohim is in my nostrils);
4. surely my lips shall not speak unrighteousness, neither shall my tongue utter deceit.
5. Far be it from me that I should justify you. Until I die I will not put away my integrity from me.
6. I hold fast to my righteousness, and will not let it go. My heart shall not reproach me so long as I live.
7. "Let my enemy be as the wicked. Let the one who rises up against me be as the unrighteous.
8. For what is the hope of the godless, when he is cut off, when Elohim takes away his life?
9. Will Elohim hear his cry when trouble comes on him?
10. Will he delight himself in the Almighty, and call on Elohim at all times?
11. I will teach you about the hand of Elohim. That which is with the Almighty will I not conceal.
12. Behold, all of you have seen it yourselves; why then have you become altogether vain?
13. "This is the portion of a broken person with Elohim, the heritage of oppressors, which they receive from the Almighty.
14. If his children are multiplied, it is for the sword. His offspring shall not be satisfied with bread.
15. Those who remain of him shall be buried in death. His widows shall make no lamentation.
16. Though he heap up silver as the dust, and prepare clothing as the clay;
17. he may prepare it, but the just shall put it on, and the innocent shall divide the silver.
18. He builds his house as the moth, as a booth which the watchman makes.
19. He lies down rich, but he shall not do so again. He opens his eyes, and he is not.
20. Terrors overtake him like waters. A storm steals him away in the night.
21. The east wind carries him away, and he departs. It sweeps him out of his place.
22. For it hurls at him, and does not spare, as he flees away from his hand.
23. People shall clap their hands at him, and shall hiss him out of his place.

Job 28
1. "Surely there is a mine for silver, and a place for gold which they refine.
2. Iron is taken out of the earth, and copper is smelted out of the ore.
3. Man sets an end to darkness, and searches out, to the furthest bound, the stones of obscurity and of thick darkness.
4. He breaks open a shaft away from where people live. They are forgotten by the foot. They hang far from people, they swing back and forth.
5. As for the earth, out of it comes bread; Underneath it is turned up as it were by fire.
6. Sapphires come from its rocks. It has dust of gold.
7. That path no bird of prey knows, neither has the falcon's eye seen it.
8. The proud animals have not trodden it, nor has the fierce lion passed by there.
9. He puts forth his hand on the flinty rock, and he overturns the mountains by the roots.
10. He cuts out channels among the rocks. His eye sees every precious thing.
11. He binds the streams that they don't trickle. The thing that is hidden he brings forth to light.
12. "But where shall wisdom be found? Where is the place of understanding?
13. Man doesn't know its price; Neither is it found in the land of the living.
14. The deep says, 'It isn't in me.' The sea says, 'It isn't with me.'
15. It can't be gotten for gold, neither shall silver be weighed for its price.
16. It can't be valued with the gold of Ophir, with the precious onyx, or the sapphire.
17. Gold and glass can't equal it, neither shall it be exchanged for jewels of fine gold.
18. No mention shall be made of coral or of crystal. Yes, the price of wisdom is above rubies.
19. The topaz of Ethiopia shall not equal it, Neither shall it be valued with pure gold.
20. Whence then comes wisdom? Where is the place of understanding?
21. Seeing it is hidden from the eyes of all living, and kept close from the birds of the heavens.
22. Destruction and Death say, 'We have heard a rumor of it with our ears.'
23. "Elohim understands its way, and he knows its place.
24. For he looks to the ends of the earth, and sees under the whole heavens.
25. He establishes the force of the wind. Yes, he measures out the waters by measure.
26. When he made a decree for the rain, and a way for the lightning of the thunder;
27. then he saw it, and declared it. He established it, yes, and searched it out.
28. To man he said, 'Behold, the fear of YHWH, that is wisdom. To depart from harm is understanding.'"

Job 29
1. Job again took up his parable, and said,
2. "Oh that I were as in the months of old, as in the days when Elohim watched over me;
3. when his lamp shone on my head, and by his light I walked through darkness,
4. as I was in the ripeness of my days, when the friendship of Elohim was in my tent,
5. when the Almighty was yet with me, and my children were around me,
6. when my steps were washed with butter, and the rock poured out streams of oil for me,
7. when I went forth to the city gate, when I prepared my seat in the street.
8. The young people saw me and hid themselves. The aged rose up and stood.
9. The princes refrained from talking, and laid their hand on their mouth.
10. The voice of the nobles was hushed, and their tongue stuck to the roof of their mouth.
11. For when the ear heard me, then it blessed me; and when the eye saw me, it commended me:
12. Because I delivered the poor who cried, and the fatherless also, who had none to help him,
13. the blessing of the one who was ready to perish came on me, and I caused the widow's heart to sing for joy.
14. I put on righteousness, and it clothed me. My justice was as a robe and a diadem.
15. I was eyes to the blind, and feet to the lame.
16. I was a father to the needy. The cause of the one who I didn't know, I searched out.
17. I broke the jaws of the unrighteous, and plucked the prey out of his teeth.
18. Then I said, 'I shall die in my own house, I shall number my days as the sand.
19. My root is spread out to the waters. The dew lies all night on my branch.
20. My glory is fresh in me. My bow is renewed in my hand.'
21. "Men listened to me, waited, and kept silence for my counsel.
22. After my words they didn't speak again. My speech fell on them.
23. They waited for me as for the rain. Their mouths drank as with the spring rain.
24. I smiled on them when they had no confidence. They didn't reject the light of my face.
25. I chose out their way, and sat as chief. I lived as a king in the army, as one who comforts the mourners.

Job 30
1. "But now those who are younger than I have me in derision, whose fathers I would have disdained to put with my sheep dogs.
2. Of what use is the strength of their hands to me, men in whom ripe age has perished?
3. They are gaunt from lack and famine. They gnaw the dry ground, in the gloom of waste and desolation.
4. They pluck salt herbs by the bushes. The roots of the broom are their food.
5. They are driven out from the midst of people. They cry after them as after a thief;
6. So that they dwell in frightful valleys, and in holes of the earth and of the rocks.
7. Among the bushes they bray; and under the nettles they are gathered together.
8. They are children of fools, yes, children of base men. They were flogged out of the land.
9. "Now I have become their song. Yes, I am a byword to them.
10. They abhor me, they stand aloof from me, and don't hesitate to spit in my face.
11. For he has untied his cord, and afflicted me; and they have thrown off restraint before me.
12. On my right hand rise the rabble. They thrust aside my feet, They cast up against me their ways of destruction.
13. They mar my path, They set forward my calamity, without anyone's help.
14. As through a wide breach they come, in the midst of the ruin they roll themselves in.
15. Terrors have turned on me. They chase my honor as the wind. My welfare has passed away as a cloud.
16. "Now my soul is poured out within me. Days of affliction have taken hold on me.
17. In the night season my bones are pierced in me, and the pains that gnaw me take no rest.
18. By great force is my garment disfigured. It binds me about as the collar of my coat.
19. He has cast me into the mire. I have become like dust and ashes.
20. I cry to you, and you do not answer me. I stand up, and you gaze at me.
21. You have turned to be cruel to me. With the might of your hand you persecute me.
22. You lift me up to the wind, and drive me with it. You dissolve me in the storm.
23. For I know that you will bring me to death, To the house appointed for all living.
24. "However doesn't one stretch out a hand in his fall? Or in his calamity therefore cry for help?
25. Didn't I weep for the one who was in trouble? Wasn't my soul grieved for the needy?
26. When I looked for good, then brokenness came; When I waited for light, there came darkness.
27. My heart is troubled, and doesn't rest. Days of affliction have come on me.
28. I go mourning without the sun. I stand up in the assembly, and cry for help.
29. I am a brother to jackals, and a companion to ostriches.
30. My skin grows black and peels from me. My bones are burned with heat.
31. Therefore my harp has turned to mourning, and my pipe into the voice of those who weep.

Job 31
1. "I made a covenant with my eyes, how then should I look lustfully at a young woman?
2. For what is the portion from Elohim above, and the heritage from the Almighty on high?
3. Is it not calamity to the unrighteous, and disaster to the workers of iniquity?
4. Doesn't he see my ways, and number all my steps?
5. "If I have walked with falsehood, and my foot has hurried to deceit
6. (let me be weighed in an even balance, that Elohim may know my integrity);
7. if my step has turned out of the way, if my heart walked after my eyes, if any defilement has stuck to my hands,
8. then let me sow, and let another eat. Yes, let the produce of my field be rooted out.
9. "If my heart has been enticed to a woman, and I have laid wait at my neighbor's door,
10. then let my wife grind for another, and let others sleep with her.
11. For that would be a heinous crime. Yes, it would be an iniquity to be punished by the judges:
12. For it is a fire that consumes to destruction, and would root out all my increase.
13. "If I have despised the cause of my male servant or of my female servant, when they contended with me;
14. What then shall I do when Elohim rises up? When he visits, what shall I answer him?
15. Didn't the one who made me in the womb make him? Didn't one fashion us in the womb?
16. "If I have withheld the poor from their desire, or have caused the eyes of the widow to fail,
17. or have eaten my morsel alone, and the fatherless has not eaten of it
18. (no, from my youth he grew up with me as with a father, her have I guided from my mother's womb);
19. if I have seen any perish for want of clothing, or that the needy had no covering;
20. if his heart hasn't blessed me, if he hasn't been warmed with my sheep's fleece;
21. if I have lifted up my hand against the fatherless, because I saw my help in the gate,
22. then let my shoulder fall from the shoulder blade, and my arm be broken from the bone.
23. For calamity from Elohim is a terror to me. Because his majesty, I can do nothing.
24. "If I have made gold my hope, and have said to the fine gold, 'You are my confidence;'
25. If I have rejoiced because my wealth was great, and because my hand had gotten much;
26. if I have seen the sun when it shined, or the moon moving in splendor,
27. and my heart has been secretly enticed, and my hand threw a kiss from my mouth,
28. this also would be an iniquity to be punished by the judges; for I should have denied Elohim, the one who is above.
29. "If I have rejoiced at the destruction of the one who hated me, or lifted up myself when brokenness found him;
30. (yes, I have not allowed my mouth to sin by asking his life with a curse);
31. if the men of my tent have not said, 'Who can find one who has not been filled with their meat?'
32. (the foreigner has not lodged in the street, but I have opened my doors to the traveler);
33. if like Adam I have covered my transgressions, by hiding my iniquity in my heart,
34. because I feared the great multitude, and the contempt of families terrified me, so that I kept silence, and didn't go out of the door--
35. oh that I had one to hear me! (behold, here is my signature, let the Almighty answer me); let the accuser write my indictment!
36. Surely I would carry it on my shoulder; and I would bind it to me as a crown.
37. I would declare to him the number of my steps. as a prince would I go near to him.
38. If my land cries out against me, and the furrows of it weep together;
39. if I have eaten the fruits of it without money, or have caused the owners of it to lose their life,
40. let briars grow instead of wheat, and stinkweed instead of barley." The words of Job are ended.

Job 32
1. So these three men ceased to answer Job, because he was righteous in his own eyes.
2. Then the wrath of Elihu the son of Barachel, the Buzite, of the family of Ram, was kindled against Job. His wrath was kindled because he justified himself rather than Elohim.
3. Also his wrath was kindled against his three friends, because they had found no answer, and yet had condemned Job.
4. Now Elihu had waited to speak to Job, because they were elder than he.
5. When Elihu saw that there was no answer in the mouth of these three men, his wrath was kindled.
6. Elihu the son of Barachel the Buzite answered, "I am young, and you are very old; Therefore I held back, and didn't dare show you my opinion.
7. I said, 'Days should speak, and multitude of years should teach wisdom.'
8. But there is a spirit in man, and the breath of the Almighty gives them understanding.
9. It is not the great who are wise, nor the aged who understand justice.
10. Therefore I said, 'Listen to me; I also will show my opinion.'
11. "Behold, I waited for your words, and I listened for your reasoning, while you searched out what to say.
12. Yes, I gave you my full attention, but there was no one who convinced Job, or who answered their words, among you.
13. Beware lest you say, 'We have found wisdom, Elohim may refute him, not man;'
14. for he has not directed his words against me; neither will I answer him with your speeches.
15. "They are amazed. They answer no more. They don't have a word to say.
16. Shall I wait, because they don't speak, because they stand still, and answer no more?
17. I also will answer my part, and I also will show my opinion.
18. For I am full of words. The spirit within me constrains me.
19. Behold, my breast is as wine which has no vent; like new wineskins it is ready to burst.
20. I will speak, that I may be refreshed. I will open my lips and answer.
21. Please don't let me respect anyone's person, neither will I give flattering titles to anyone.
22. For I don't know how to give flattering titles; or else my Maker would soon take me away.

Job 33
1. "However, Job, Please hear my speech, and listen to all my words.
2. See now, I have opened my mouth. My tongue has spoken in my mouth.
3. My words shall utter the uprightness of my heart. That which my lips know they shall speak sincerely.
4. The Ruach of Elohim has made me, and the breath of the Almighty gives me life.
5. If you can, answer me. Set your words in order before me, and stand forth.
6. Behold, I am toward Elohim even as you are. I am also formed out of the clay.
7. Behold, my terror shall not make you afraid, neither shall my pressure be heavy on you.
8. "Surely you have spoken in my hearing, I have heard the voice of your words, saying,
9. 'I am clean, without disobedience. I am innocent, neither is there iniquity in me.
10. Behold, he finds occasions against me. He counts me for his enemy.
11. He puts my feet in the stocks. He marks all my paths.'
12. "Behold, I will answer you. In this you are not just, for Elohim is greater than man.
13. Why do you strive against him, because he doesn't give account of any of his matters?
14. For Elohim speaks once, yes twice, though man pays no attention.
15. In a dream, in a vision of the night, when deep sleep falls on men, in slumbering on the bed;
16. Then he opens the ears of people, and seals their instruction,
17. That he may withdraw man from his purpose, and hide pride from man.
18. He keeps back his soul from the pit, and his life from perishing by the sword.
19. He is chastened also with pain on his bed, with continual strife in his bones;
20. So that his life abhors bread, and his soul dainty food.
21. His flesh is so consumed away, that it can't be seen. His bones that were not seen stick out.
22. Yes, his soul draws near to the pit, and his life to the destroyers.
23. "If there is beside him an angel, an interpreter, one among a thousand, to show to man what is right for him;
24. then Elohim is gracious to him, and says, 'Deliver him from going down to the pit, I have found a ransom.'
25. His flesh shall be fresher than a child's. He returns to the days of his youth.
26. He prays to Elohim, and he is favorable to him, so that he sees his face with joy. He restores to man his righteousness.
27. He sings before men, and says, 'I have sinned, and perverted that which was right, and it didn't profit me.
28. He has redeemed my soul from going into the pit. My life shall see the light.'
29. "Behold, Elohim works all these things, twice, yes three times, with a person,
30. to bring back his soul from the pit, that he may be enlightened with the light of the living.
31. Mark well, Job, and listen to me. Hold your peace, and I will speak.
32. If you have anything to say, answer me. Speak, for I desire to justify you.
33. If not, listen to me. Hold your peace, and I will teach you wisdom."

Job 34
1. Moreover Elihu answered,
2. "Hear my words, you wise people. Give ear to me, you who have knowledge.
3. For the ear tries words, as the palate tastes food.
4. Let us choose for us that which is right. Let us know among ourselves what is good.
5. For Job has said, 'I am righteous, Elohim has taken away my right:
6. Notwithstanding my right I am considered a liar. My wound is incurable, though I am without disobedience.'
7. What a person is like Job, who drinks scorn like water,
8. Who goes in company with the workers of iniquity, and walks with wicked men?
9. For they have said, 'It profits a person nothing that they should delight themselves with Elohim.'
10. "Therefore listen to me, you men of understanding: far be it from Elohim, that he should do wickedness, from the Almighty, that he should commit iniquity.
11. For the work of a person they will render to him, and cause everyone to find according to their ways.
12. Yes surely, Elohim will not do wickedly, neither will the Almighty pervert justice.
13. Who gave him a charge over the earth? or who has appointed him over the whole world?
14. If he set his heart on himself, If he gathered to himself his spirit and his breath,
15. all flesh would perish together, and man would turn again to dust.
16. "If now you have understanding, hear this. Listen to the voice of my words.
17. Shall even one who hates justice govern? Will you condemn the one who is righteous and mighty?--
18. Who says to a king, 'Vile!' or to nobles, 'Wicked!'?
19. Who doesn't respect the persons of princes, nor regards the rich more than the poor; for they all are the work of his hands.
20. In a moment they die, even at midnight. The people are shaken and pass away. The mighty are taken away without a hand.
21. "For their eyes are on the ways of a person. He sees all his goings.
22. There is no darkness, nor thick gloom, where the workers of iniquity may hide themselves.
23. For they don't need to consider a person further, that they should go before Elohim in judgment.
24. He breaks in pieces mighty men in ways past finding out, and sets others in their place.
25. Therefore he takes knowledge of their works. He overturns them in the night, so that they are destroyed.
26. He strikes them as wicked men in the open sight of others;
27. because they turned aside from following him, and wouldn't pay attention to any of his ways,
28. so that they caused the cry of the poor to come to him. He heard the cry of the afflicted.
29. When he gives quietness, who then can condemn? When he hides his face, who then can see him? Alike whether to a nation, or to a person,
30. that the godless man may not reign, that there be no one to ensnare the people.
31. "For has any said to Elohim, 'I am guilty, but I will not offend any more.
32. Teach me that which I don't see. If I have done iniquity, I will do it no more'?
33. Shall his recompense be as you desire, that you refuse it? For you must choose, and not I. Therefore speak what you know.
34. Men of understanding will tell me, yes, every wise person who hears me:
35. 'Job speaks without knowledge. His words are without wisdom.'
36. I wish that Job were tried to the end, because of his answering like wicked men.
37. For he adds rebellion to his sin. He claps his hands among us, and multiplies his words against Elohim."

Job 35
1. Moreover Elihu answered,
2. "Do you think this to be your right, or do you say, 'My righteousness is more than Elohim's,'
3. That you ask, 'What advantage will it be to you? What profit shall I have, more than if I had sinned?'
4. I will answer you, and your companions with you.
5. Look to the heavens, and see. See the skies, which are higher than you.
6. If you have sinned, what effect do you have against him? If your transgressions are multiplied, what do you do to him?
7. If you are righteous, what do you give him? Or what does he receive from your hand?
8. Your wickedness may hurt a person as you are, and your righteousness may profit a child of humanity.
9. "By reason of the multitude of oppressions they cry out. They cry for help by reason of the arm of the mighty.
10. But none says, 'Where is Elohim my Maker, who gives songs in the night,
11. who teaches us more than the animals of the earth, and makes us wiser than the birds of the heavens?'
12. There they cry, but none gives answer, because of the pride of brokenness men.
13. Surely Elohim will not hear an empty cry, neither will the Almighty regard it.
14. How much less when you say you don't see him. The cause is before him, and you wait for him!
15. But now, because he has not visited in his anger, neither does he greatly regard arrogance.
16. Therefore Job opens his mouth with empty talk, and he multiplies words without knowledge."

Job 36
1. Elihu also continued, and said,
2. "Bear with me a little, and I will show you; for I still have something to say on Elohim's behalf.
3. I will get my knowledge from afar, and will ascribe righteousness to my Maker.
4. For truly my words are not false. One who is perfect in knowledge is with you.
5. "Behold, Elohim is mighty, and doesn't despise anyone. He is mighty in strength of understanding.
6. He doesn't preserve the life of the wicked, but gives to the afflicted their right.
7. He doesn't withdraw his eyes from the righteous, but with kings on the throne, he sets them forever, and they are exalted.
8. If they are bound in fetters, and are taken in the cords of afflictions,
9. then he shows them their work, and their transgressions, that they have behaved themselves proudly.
10. He also opens their ears to instruction, and commands that they return from iniquity.
11. If they listen and serve him, they shall spend their days in prosperity, and their years in pleasures.
12. But if they don't listen, they shall perish by the sword; they shall die without knowledge.
13. "But those who are godless in heart lay up anger. They don't cry for help when he binds them.
14. They die in youth. Their life perishes among the unclean.
15. He delivers the afflicted by their affliction, and opens their ear in oppression.
16. Yes, he would have allured you out of distress, into a broad place, where there is no restriction. That which is set on your table would be full of fatness.
17. "But you are full of the judgment of the wicked. Judgment and justice take hold of you.
18. Don't let riches entice you to wrath, neither let the great size of a bribe turn you aside.
19. Would your wealth sustain you in distress, or all the might of your strength?
20. Don't desire the night, when people are cut off in their place.
21. Take heed, don't regard iniquity; for you have chosen this rather than affliction.
22. Behold, Elohim is exalted in his power. Who is a teacher like him?
23. Who has prescribed his way for him? Or who can say, 'You have committed unrighteousness?'
24. "Remember that you magnify his work, whereof men have sung.
25. All people have looked thereon. Man sees it afar off.
26. Behold, Elohim is great, and we don't know him. The number of his years is unsearchable.
27. For he draws up the drops of water, which distill in rain from his vapor,
28. Which the skies pour down and which drop on man abundantly.
29. Yes, can any understand the spreading of the clouds, and the thunderings of his pavilion?
30. Behold, he spreads his light around him. He covers the bottom of the sea.
31. For by these he judges the people. He gives food in abundance.
32. He covers his hands with the lightning, and commands it to strike the mark.
33. Its noise tells about him, and the livestock also concerning the storm that comes up.

Job 37
1. "Yes, at this my heart trembles, and is moved out of its place.
2. Hear, oh, hear the noise of his voice, the sound that goes out of his mouth.
3. He sends it forth under the whole heavens, and his lightning to the ends of the earth.
4. After it a voice roars. He thunders with the voice of his majesty. He doesn't hold back anything when his voice is heard.
5. Elohim thunders marvelously with his voice. He does great things, which we can't comprehend.
6. For he says to the snow, 'Fall on the earth;' likewise to the shower of rain, and to the showers of his mighty rain.
7. They seals up the hand of everyone, that all people whom they have made may know it.
8. Then the animals take cover, and remain in their dens.
9. Out of its chamber comes the storm, and cold out of the north.
10. By the breath of Elohim, ice is given, and the breadth of the waters is frozen.
11. Yes, he loads the thick cloud with moisture. He spreads abroad the cloud of his lightning.
12. It is turned round about by his guidance, that they may do whatever he commands them on the surface of the habitable world,
13. Whether it is for correction, or for his land, or for loving kindness, that he causes it to come.
14. "Listen to this, Job. Stand still, and consider the wondrous works of Elohim.
15. Do you know how Elohim controls them, and causes the lightning of his cloud to shine?
16. Do you know the workings of the clouds, the wondrous works of the one who is perfect in knowledge?
17. You whose clothing is warm, when the earth is still by reason of the south wind?
18. Can you, with him, spread out the heavens, which is strong as a cast metal mirror?
19. Teach us what we shall tell him, for we can't make our case by reason of darkness.
20. Shall it be told him that I would speak? Or should a person wish that they were swallowed up?
21. Now men don't see the light which is bright in the skies, but the wind passes, and clears them.
22. Out of the north comes golden splendor. With Elohim is awesome majesty.
23. We can't reach the Almighty. He is exalted in power. In justice and great righteousness, he will not oppress.
24. Therefore men revere him. He doesn't regard any who are wise of heart."

Job 38
1. Then YHWH answered Job out of the whirlwind,
2. "Who is this who darkens counsel by words without knowledge?
3. Brace yourself like a person, for I will question you, then you answer me!
4. "Where were you when I laid the foundations of the earth? Declare, if you have understanding.
5. Who determined the measures of it, if you know? Or who stretched the line on it?
6. Whereupon were the foundations of it fastened? Or who laid its cornerstone,
7. when the morning stars sang together, and all the sons of Elohim shouted for joy?
8. "Or who shut up the sea with doors, when it broke forth from the womb,
9. when I made clouds its garment, and wrapped it in thick darkness,
10. marked out for it my bound, set bars and doors,
11. and said, 'Here you may come, but no further. Here shall your proud waves be stayed?'
12. "Have you commanded the morning in your days, and caused the dawn to know its place;
13. that it might take hold of the ends of the earth, and shake the wicked out of it?
14. It is changed as clay under the seal, and stands forth as a garment.
15. From the wicked, their light is withheld. The high arm is broken.
16. "Have you entered into the springs of the sea? Or have you walked in the recesses of the deep?
17. Have the gates of death been revealed to you? Or have you seen the gates of the shadow of death?
18. Have you comprehended the earth in its breadth? Declare, if you know it all.
19. "What is the way to the dwelling of light? As for darkness, where is its place,
20. that you should take it to its bound, that you should discern the paths to its house?
21. Surely you know, for you were born then, and the number of your days is great!
22. Have you entered the treasuries of the snow, or have you seen the treasures of the hail,
23. which I have reserved against the time of trouble, against the day of battle and war?
24. By what way is the lightning distributed, or the east wind scattered on the earth?
25. Who has cut a channel for the flood water, or the path for the thunderstorm;
26. To cause it to rain on a land where no one is; on the wilderness, in which there is no one;
27. to satisfy the waste and desolate ground, to cause the tender grass to spring forth?
28. Does the rain have a father? Or who fathers the drops of dew?
29. Out of whose womb came the ice? The gray frost of the heavens, who has given birth to it?
30. The waters become hard like stone, when the surface of the deep is frozen.
31. "Can you bind the cluster of the Pleiades, or loosen the cords of Orion?
32. Can you lead forth the constellations in their season? Or can you guide the Bear with her cubs?
33. Do you know the laws of the heavens? Can you establish the dominion of it over the earth?
34. "Can you lift up your voice to the clouds, That abundance of waters may cover you?
35. Can you send forth lightnings, that they may go? Do they report to you, 'Here we are?'
36. Who has put wisdom in the inward parts? Or who has given understanding to the mind?
37. Who can number the clouds by wisdom? Or who can pour out the bottles of the heavens,
38. when the dust runs into a mass, and the clods of earth stick together?
39. "Can you hunt the prey for the lioness, or satisfy the appetite of the young lions,
40. when they crouch in their dens, and lie in wait in the thicket?
41. Who provides for the raven his prey, when his young ones cry to Elohim, and wander for lack of food?

Job 39
1. "Do you know the time when the mountain goats give birth? Do you watch when the doe bears fawns?
2. Can you number the months that they fulfill? Or do you know the time when they give birth?
3. They bow themselves, they bring forth their young, they end their labor pains.
4. Their young ones become strong. They grow up in the open field. They go forth, and don't return again.
5. "Who has set the wild donkey free? Or who has loosened the bonds of the swift donkey,
6. Whose home I have made the wilderness, and the salt land his dwelling place?
7. He scorns the tumult of the city, neither does he hear the shouting of the driver.
8. The range of the mountains is his pasture, He searches after every green thing.
9. "Will the wild ox be content to serve you? Or will he stay by your feeding trough?
10. Can you hold the wild ox in the furrow with his harness? Or will he till the valleys after you?
11. Will you trust him, because his strength is great? Or will you leave to him your labor?
12. Will you confide in him, that he will bring home your seed, and gather the grain of your threshing floor?
13. "The wings of the ostrich wave proudly; but are they the feathers and plumage of love?
14. For she leaves her eggs on the earth, warms them in the dust,
15. and forgets that the foot may crush them, or that the wild animal may trample them.
16. She deals harshly with her young ones, as if they were not hers. Though her labor is in vain, she is without fear,
17. because Elohim has deprived her of wisdom, neither has he imparted to her understanding.
18. When she lifts up herself on high, she scorns the horse and his rider.
19. "Have you given the horse might? Have you clothed his neck with a quivering mane?
20. Have you made him to leap as a locust? The glory of his snorting is awesome.
21. He paws in the valley, and rejoices in his strength. He goes out to meet the armed men.
22. He mocks at fear, and is not dismayed, neither does he turn back from the sword.
23. The quiver rattles against him, the flashing spear and the javelin.
24. He eats up the ground with fierceness and rage, neither does he stand still at the sound of the trumpet.
25. As often as the trumpet sounds he snorts, 'Aha!' He smells the battle afar off, the thunder of the captains, and the shouting.
26. "Is it by your wisdom that the hawk soars, and stretches her wings toward the south?
27. Is it at your command that the eagle mounts up, and makes his nest on high?
28. On the cliff he dwells, and makes his home, on the point of the cliff, and the stronghold.
29. From there he spies out the prey. His eyes see it afar off.
30. His young ones also suck up blood. Where the slain are, there he is."

Job 40
1. Moreover YHWH answered Job,
2. "Shall the one who argues contend with the Almighty? The one who argues with Elohim, let him answer it."
3. Then Job answered YHWH,
4. "Behold, I am of small account. What shall I answer you? I lay my hand on my mouth.
5. I have spoken once, and I will not answer; Yes, twice, but I will proceed no further."
6. Then YHWH answered Job out of the whirlwind,
7. "Now brace yourself like a person. I will question you, and you will answer me.
8. Will you even annul my judgment? Will you condemn me, that you may be justified?
9. Or do you have an arm like Elohim? Can you thunder with a voice like him?
10. "Now deck yourself with excellency and dignity. Array yourself with honor and majesty.
11. Pour out the fury of your anger. Look at everyone who is proud, and bring him low.
12. Look at everyone who is proud, and humble him. Crush the wicked in their place.
13. Hide them in the dust together. Bind their faces in the hidden place.
14. Then I will also admit to you that your own right hand can save you.
15. "See now, behemoth, which I made as well as you. He eats grass as an ox.
16. Look now, his strength is in his thighs. His force is in the muscles of his belly.
17. He moves his tail like a cedar. The sinews of his thighs are knit together.
18. His bones are like tubes of brass. His limbs are like bars of iron.
19. He is the chief of the ways of Elohim. The one who made him gives him their sword.
20. Surely the mountains produce food for him, where all the animals of the field play.
21. He lies under the lotus trees, in the covert of the reed, and the marsh.
22. The lotuses cover him with their shade. The willows of the brook surround him.
23. Behold, if a river overflows, he doesn't tremble. He is confident, though the Yarden swells even to his mouth.
24. Shall any take him when he is on the watch, or pierce through his nose with a snare?

Job 41
1. "Can you draw out Leviathan with a fishhook, or press down his tongue with a cord?
2. Can you put a rope into his nose, or pierce his jaw through with a hook?
3. Will he make many petitions to you, or will he speak soft words to you?
4. Will he make a covenant with you, that you should take him for a servant forever?
5. Will you play with him as with a bird? Or will you bind him for your girls?
6. Will traders barter for him? Will they part him among the merchants?
7. Can you fill his skin with barbed irons, or his head with fish spears?
8. Lay your hand on him. Remember the battle, and do so no more.
9. Behold, the hope of him is in vain. Won't one be cast down even at the sight of him?
10. None is so fierce that he dare stir him up. Who then is the one who can stand before me?
11. Who has first given to me, that I should repay him? Everything under the heavens is mine.
12. "I will not keep silence concerning his limbs, nor his mighty strength, nor his goodly frame.
13. Who can strip off his outer garment? Who shall come within his jaws?
14. Who can open the doors of his face? Around his teeth is terror.
15. Strong scales are his pride, shut up together with a close seal.
16. One is so near to another, that no air can come between them.
17. They are joined one to another. They stick together, so that they can't be pulled apart.
18. His sneezing flashes out light. His eyes are like the eyelids of the morning.
19. Out of his mouth go burning torches. Sparks of fire leap forth.
20. Out of his nostrils a smoke goes, as of a boiling pot over a fire of reeds.
21. His breath kindles coals. A flame goes forth from his mouth.
22. There is strength in his neck. Terror dances before him.
23. The flakes of his flesh are joined together. They are firm on him. They can't be moved.
24. His heart is as firm as a stone, yes, firm as the lower millstone.
25. When he raises himself up, the mighty are afraid. They retreat before his thrashing.
26. If one attacks him with the sword, it can't prevail; nor the spear, the dart, nor the pointed shaft.
27. He counts iron as straw; and brass as rotten wood.
28. The arrow can't make him flee. Sling stones are like chaff to him.
29. Clubs are counted as stubble. He laughs at the rushing of the javelin.
30. His undersides are like sharp potsherds, leaving a trail in the mud like a threshing sledge.
31. He makes the deep to boil like a pot. He makes the sea like a pot of ointment.
32. He makes a path shine after him. One would think the deep had white hair.
33. On earth there is not his equal, that is made without fear.
34. He sees everything that is high. He is king over all the sons of pride."

Job 42
1. Then Job answered YHWH,
2. "I know that you can do all things, and that no purpose of yours can be restrained.
3. You asked, 'Who is this who hides counsel without knowledge?' therefore I have uttered that which I did not understand, things too wonderful for me, which I didn't know.
4. You said, 'Listen, now, and I will speak; I will question you, and you will answer me.'
5. I had heard of you by the hearing of the ear, but now my eye sees you.
6. Therefore I abhor myself, and turn back in dust and ashes."
7. It was so, that after YHWH had spoken these words to Job, YHWH said to Eliphaz the Temanite, "My wrath is kindled against you, and against your two friends; for you have not spoken of me the thing that is right, as my servant Job has.
8. Now therefore, take to yourselves seven bulls and seven rams, and go to my servant Job, and offer up for yourselves a burnt offering; and my servant Job shall pray for you, for I will accept him, that I not deal with you according to your folly. For you have not spoken of me the thing that is right, as my servant Job has."
9. So Eliphaz the Temanite and Bildad the Shuhite and Zophar the Naamathite went, and did what YHWH commanded them, and YHWH accepted Job.
10. YHWH turned the captivity of Job, when he prayed for his friends. YHWH gave Job twice as much as he had before.
11. Then came there to him all his brothers, and all his sisters, and all those who had been of his acquaintance before, and ate bread with him in his house. They comforted him, and consoled him concerning all the harm that YHWH had brought on him. Everyone also gave him a piece of money, and everyone a ring of gold.
12. So YHWH blessed the latter end of Job more than his beginning. He had fourteen thousand sheep, six thousand camels, one thousand yoke of oxen, and a thousand female donkeys.
13. He had also seven sons and three daughters.
14. He called the name of the first, Jemimah; and the name of the second, Keziah; and the name of the third, Keren Happuch.
15. In all the land were no women found so beautiful as the daughters of Job. Their father gave them an inheritance among their brothers.
16. After this Job lived one hundred forty years, and saw his sons, and his sons' sons, to four generations.
17. So Job died, being old and full of days.

Psalms 1
1. Blessed is the one who doesn't walk in the counsel of the wicked, nor stand in the way of sinners, nor sit in the seat of scoffers;
2. but his delight is in YHWH's law. On his law he meditates day and night.
3. He will be like a tree planted by the streams of water, that brings forth its fruit in its season, whose leaf also does not wither. Whatever he does shall prosper.
4. The wicked are not so, but are like the chaff which the wind drives away.
5. Therefore the wicked shall not stand in the judgment, nor sinners in the congregation of the righteous.
6. For YHWH knows the way of the righteous, but the way of the wicked shall perish.

Psalms 2
1. Why do the nations rage, and the peoples plot a vain thing?
2. The kings of the earth take a stand, and the rulers take counsel together, against YHWH, and against his Anointed, saying,
3. "Let's break their bonds apart, and cast their cords from us."
4. The one who sits in the heavens will laugh. YHWH will have them in derision.
5. Then he will speak to them in his anger, and terrify them in his wrath:
6. "Yet I have set my king on my holy hill of Tzion."
7. I will tell of the decree. YHWH said to me, "You are my son. Today I have brought you forth.
8. Ask of me, and I will give the nations for your inheritance, the uttermost parts of the earth for your possession.
9. You shall break them with a rod of iron. You shall dash them in pieces like a potter's vessel."
10. Now therefore be wise, you kings. Be instructed, you judges of the earth.
11. Serve YHWH with reverence, and rejoice with trembling.
12. Give sincere homage, lest he be angry, and you perish in the way, for his wrath will soon be kindled. Blessed are all those who take refuge in him.

Psalms 3
1. YHWH, how my adversaries have increased! Many are those who rise up against me.
2. Many there are who say of my soul, "There is no help for him in Elohim." Selah.
3. But you, YHWH, are a shield around me, my glory, and the one who lifts up my head.
4. I cry to YHWH with my voice, and he answers me out of his holy hill. Selah.
5. I laid myself down and slept. I awakened; for YHWH sustains me.
6. I will not be afraid of tens of thousands of people who have set themselves against me on every side.
7. Arise, YHWH! Save me, my God! For you have struck all of my enemies on the cheek bone. You have broken the teeth of the wicked.
8. Salvation belongs to YHWH. Your blessing be on your people. Selah.

Psalms 4
1. Answer me when I call, God of my righteousness. Give me relief from my distress. Have mercy on me, and hear my prayer.
2. You human beings, how long shall my glory be turned into dishonor? Will you love vanity, and seek after falsehood? Selah.
3. But know that YHWH has set apart for themselves the one who is godly: YHWH will hear when I call to him.
4. Stand in awe, and don't sin. Search your own heart on your bed, and be still. Selah.
5. Offer the sacrifices of righteousness. Put your trust in YHWH.
6. Many say, "Who will show us any good?" YHWH, let the light of your face shine on us.
7. You have put gladness in my heart, more than when their grain and their new wine are increased.
8. In peace I will both lay myself down and sleep, for you, YHWH alone, make me live in safety.

Psalms 5
1. Give ear to my words, YHWH. Consider my meditation.
2. Listen to the voice of my cry, my King and my God; for to you do I pray.
3. YHWH, in the morning you shall hear my voice. In the morning I will lay my requests before you, and will watch expectantly.
4. For you are not an Elohim who has pleasure in wickedness. Brokenness can't live with you.
5. The arrogant shall not stand in your sight. You hate all workers of iniquity.
6. You will destroy those who speak lies. YHWH abhors the blood-thirsty and deceitful man.
7. But as for me, in the abundance of your loving kindness I will come into your house. I will bow toward your holy temple in reverence of you.
8. Lead me, YHWH, in your righteousness because of my enemies. Make your way straight before my face.
9. For there is no faithfulness in their mouth. Their heart is destruction. Their throat is an open tomb. They flatter with their tongue.
10. Hold them guilty, Elohim. Let them fall by their own counsels; Thrust them out in the multitude of their transgressions, for they have rebelled against you.
11. But let all those who take refuge in you rejoice, Let them always shout for joy, because you defend them. Let them also who love your name be joyful in you.
12. For you will bless the righteous. YHWH, you will surround him with favor as with a shield.

Psalms 6
1. YHWH, don't rebuke me in your anger, neither discipline me in your wrath.
2. Have mercy on me, YHWH, for I am faint. YHWH, heal me, for my bones are troubled.
3. My soul is also in great anguish. But you, YHWH--how long?
4. Return, YHWH. Deliver my soul, and save me for your loving kindness' sake.
5. For in death there is no memory of you. In Sheol, who shall give you thanks?
6. I am weary with my groaning. Every night I flood my bed. I drench my couch with my tears.
7. My eye wastes away because of grief. It grows old because of all my adversaries.
8. Depart from me, all you workers of iniquity, for YHWH has heard the voice of my weeping.
9. YHWH has heard my supplication. YHWH accepts my prayer.
10. May all my enemies be ashamed and dismayed. They shall turn back, they shall be disgraced suddenly.

Psalms 7
1. YHWH, my God, I take refuge in you. Save me from all those who pursue me, and deliver me,
2. lest they tear apart my soul like a lion, ripping it in pieces, while there is none to deliver.
3. YHWH, my God, if I have done this, if there is iniquity in my hands,
4. if I have rewarded brokenness to the one who was at peace with me (yes, if I have delivered the one who without cause was my adversary),
5. let the enemy pursue my soul, and overtake it; yes, let him tread my life down to the earth, and lay my glory in the dust. Selah.
6. Arise, YHWH, in your anger. Lift up yourself against the rage of my adversaries. Awake for me. You have commanded judgment.
7. Let the congregation of the peoples surround you. Rule over them on high.
8. YHWH administers judgment to the peoples. Judge me, YHWH, according to my righteousness, and to my integrity that is in me.
9. Oh let the wickedness of the wicked come to an end, but establish the righteous; their minds and hearts are searched by the righteous Elohim.
10. My shield is with Elohim, who saves the upright in heart.
11. Elohim is a righteous judge, yes, an Elohim who has indignation every day.
12. If someone doesn't relent, they will sharpen their sword; they have bent and strung their bow.
13. He has also prepared for himself the instruments of death. He makes ready his flaming arrows.
14. Behold, he travails with iniquity. Yes, he has conceived mischief, and brought forth falsehood.
15. He has dug a hole, and has fallen into the pit which he made.
16. The trouble he causes shall return to his own head. His violence shall come down on the crown of his own head.
17. I will give thanks to YHWH according to his righteousness, and will sing praise to the name of YHWH Most High.

Psalms 8
1. YHWH, our YHWH, how majestic is your name in all the earth, who has set your glory above the heavens!
2. From the lips of babes and infants you have established strength, because of your adversaries, that you might silence the enemy and the avenger.
3. When I consider your heavens, the work of your fingers, the moon and the stars, which you have ordained;
4. what is man, that you think of him? What is the child of humanity, that you care for them?
5. For you have made him a little lower than Elohim, and crowned him with glory and honor.
6. You make him ruler over the works of your hands. You have put all things under his feet:
7. All sheep and oxen, yes, and the animals of the field,
8. The birds of the heavens, the fish of the sea, and whatever passes through the paths of the seas.
9. YHWH, our YHWH, how majestic is your name in all the earth!

Psalms 9
1. I will give thanks to YHWH with my whole heart. I will tell of all your marvelous works.
2. I will be glad and rejoice in you. I will sing praise to your name, O Most High.
3. When my enemies turn back, they stumble and perish in your presence.
4. For you have maintained my just cause. You sit on the throne judging righteously.
5. You have rebuked the nations. You have destroyed the wicked. You have blotted out their name forever and ever.
6. The enemy is overtaken by endless ruin. The very memory of the cities which you have overthrown has perished.
7. But YHWH reigns forever. He has prepared his throne for judgment.
8. He will judge the world in righteousness. He will administer judgment to the peoples in uprightness.
9. YHWH will also be a high tower for the oppressed; a high tower in times of trouble.
10. Those who know your name will put their trust in you, for you, YHWH, have not forsaken those who seek you.
11. Sing praises to YHWH, who dwells in Tzion, and declare among the people what he has done.
12. For the one who avenges blood remembers them. He doesn't forget the cry of the afflicted.
13. Have mercy on me, YHWH. See my affliction by those who hate me, and lift me up from the gates of death;
14. that I may show forth all your praise. In the gates of the daughter of Tzion, I will rejoice in your salvation.
15. The nations have sunk down in the pit that they made. In the net which they hid, their own foot is taken.
16. YHWH has made himself known. He has executed judgment. The wicked is snared by the work of his own hands. Meditation. Selah.
17. The wicked shall be turned back to Sheol, even all the nations that forget Elohim.
18. For the needy shall not always be forgotten, nor the hope of the poor perish forever.
19. Arise, YHWH! Don't let man prevail. Let the nations be judged in your sight.
20. Put them in fear, YHWH. Let the nations know that they are only men. Selah.

Psalms 10
1. Why do you stand far off, YHWH? Why do you hide yourself in times of trouble?
2. In arrogance, the wicked hunt down the weak. They are caught in the schemes that they devise.
3. For the wicked boasts of his heart's cravings. He blesses the greedy, and condemns YHWH.
4. The wicked, in the pride of his face, has no room in his thoughts for Elohim.
5. His ways are prosperous at all times. He is haughty, and your laws are far from his sight. As for all his adversaries, he sneers at them.
6. He says in his heart, "I shall not be shaken. For generations I shall have no trouble."
7. His mouth is full of cursing, deceit, and oppression. Under his tongue is mischief and iniquity.
8. He lies in wait near the villages. From ambushes, he murders the innocent. His eyes are secretly set against the helpless.
9. He lurks in secret as a lion in his ambush. He lies in wait to catch the helpless. He catches the helpless, when he draws him in his net.
10. The helpless are crushed. They collapse. They fall under his strength.
11. He says in his heart, "Elohim has forgotten. He hides his face. He will never see it."
12. Arise, YHWH! Elohim, lift up your hand! Don't forget the helpless.
13. Why does the wicked person condemn Elohim, and say in his heart, "Elohim won't call me into account?"
14. But you do see trouble and grief. You consider it to take it into your hand. You help the victim and the fatherless.
15. Break the arm of the wicked. As for the brokenness man, seek out his wickedness until you find none.
16. YHWH is King forever and ever! The nations will perish out of his land.
17. YHWH, you have heard the desire of the humble. You will prepare their heart. You will cause your ear to hear,
18. to judge the fatherless and the oppressed, that man who is of the earth may terrify no more.

Psalms 11
1. In YHWH, I take refuge. How can you say to my soul, "Flee as a bird to your mountain!"
2. For, behold, the wicked bend their bows. They set their arrows on the strings, that they may shoot in darkness at the upright in heart.
3. If the foundations are destroyed, what can the righteous do?
4. YHWH is in his holy temple. YHWH is on his throne in heavens. His eyes observe. His eyes examine the children of people.
5. YHWH examines the righteous, but the wicked and the one who loves violence their soul hates.
6. On the wicked he will rain blazing coals; fire, sulfur, and scorching wind shall be the portion of their cup.
7. For YHWH is righteous. He loves righteousness. The upright shall see his face.

Psalms 12
1. Help, YHWH; for the godly man ceases. For the faithful fail from among the children of people.
2. Everyone lies to their neighbor. They speak with flattering lips, and with a double heart.
3. May YHWH cut off all flattering lips, and the tongue that boasts,
4. who have said, "With our tongue we will prevail. Our lips are our own. Who is lord over us?"
5. "Because of the oppression of the weak and because of the groaning of the needy, I will now arise," says YHWH; "I will set him in safety from those who malign him."
6. The words of YHWH are flawless words, as silver refined in a clay furnace, purified seven times.
7. You will keep them, YHWH. You will preserve them from this generation forever.
8. The wicked walk on every side, when what is vile is exalted among the human beings.

Psalms 13
1. How long, YHWH? Will you forget me forever? How long will you hide your face from me?
2. How long shall I take counsel in my soul, having sorrow in my heart every day? How long shall my enemy triumph over me?
3. Behold, and answer me, YHWH, my God. Give light to my eyes, lest I sleep in death;
4. Lest my enemy say, "I have prevailed against him;" Lest my adversaries rejoice when I fall.
5. But I trust in your loving kindness. My heart rejoices in your salvation.
6. I will sing to YHWH, because he has been good to me.

Psalms 14
1. The fool has said in their heart, "There is no Elohim." They are corrupt. They have done abominable works. There is none who does good.
2. YHWH looked down from heavens on the children of people, to see if there were any who did understand, who did seek after Elohim.
3. They have all gone aside. They have together become corrupt. There is none who does good, no, not one.
4. Have all the workers of iniquity no knowledge, who eat up my people as they eat bread, and don't call on YHWH?
5. There they were in great fear, for Elohim is in the generation of the righteous.
6. You frustrate the plan of the poor, because YHWH is his refuge.
7. Oh that the salvation of Israel would come out of Tzion! When YHWH restores the fortunes of his people, then Ya'akov shall rejoice, and Israel shall be glad.

Psalms 15
1. YHWH, who shall dwell in your sanctuary? Who shall live on your holy hill?
2. The one who walks blamelessly does what is right, and speaks truth in their heart;
3. The one who doesn't slander with their tongue, nor does brokenness to their friend, nor casts slurs against their fellow man;
4. In whose eyes a vile person is despised, but who honors those who revere YHWH; the one who keeps an oath even when it hurts, and doesn't change;
5. the one who doesn't lend out their money for usury, nor take a bribe against the innocent. The one who does these things shall never be shaken.

Psalms 16
1. Preserve me, Elohim, for in you do I take refuge.
2. My soul, you have said to YHWH, "You are my YHWH. Apart from you I have no good thing."
3. As for the saints who are in the earth, they are the excellent ones in whom is all my delight.
4. Their sorrows shall be multiplied who give gifts to another god. Their drink offerings of blood I will not offer, nor take their names on my lips.
5. YHWH assigned my portion and my cup. You made my lot secure.
6. The lines have fallen to me in pleasant places. Yes, I have a good inheritance.
7. I will bless YHWH, who has given me counsel. Yes, my heart instructs me in the night seasons.
8. I have set YHWH always before me. Because he is at my right hand, I shall not be moved.
9. Therefore my heart is glad, and my tongue rejoices. My body shall also dwell in safety.
10. For you will not leave my soul in Sheol, neither will you allow your holy one to see corruption.
11. You will show me the path of life. In your presence is fullness of joy. In your right hand there are pleasures forevermore.

Psalms 17
1. Hear, YHWH, my righteous plea; Give ear to my prayer, that doesn't go out of deceitful lips.
2. Let my sentence come forth from your presence. Let your eyes look on equity.
3. You have proved my heart. You have visited me in the night. You have tried me, and found nothing. I have resolved that my mouth shall not disobey.
4. As for the works of people, by the word of your lips, I have kept myself from the ways of the violent.
5. My steps have held fast to your paths. My feet have not slipped.
6. I have called on you, for you will answer me, Elohim. Turn your ear to me. Hear my speech.
7. Show your marvelous loving kindness, you who save those who take refuge by your right hand from their enemies.
8. Keep me as the apple of your eye. Hide me under the shadow of your wings,
9. from the wicked who oppress me, my deadly enemies, who surround me.
10. They close up their callous hearts. With their mouth they speak proudly.
11. They have now surrounded us in our steps. They set their eyes to cast us down to the earth.
12. He is like a lion that is greedy of his prey, as it were a young lion lurking in secret places.
13. Arise, YHWH, confront him. Cast him down. Deliver my soul from the wicked by your sword;
14. from people by your hand, YHWH, from people of the world, whose portion is in this life. You fill the belly of your cherished ones. Your sons have plenty, and they store up wealth for their children.
15. As for me, I shall see your face in righteousness. I shall be satisfied, when I awake, with seeing your form.

Psalms 18
1. I love you, YHWH, my strength.
2. YHWH is my rock, my fortress, and my deliverer; my God, my rock, in whom I take refuge; my shield, and the horn of my salvation, my high tower.
3. I call on YHWH, who is worthy to be praised; and I am saved from my enemies.
4. The cords of death surrounded me. The floods of ungodliness made me afraid.
5. The cords of Sheol were around me. The snares of death came on me.
6. In my distress I called on YHWH, and cried to my God. He heard my voice out of his temple. My cry before him came into his ears.
7. Then the earth shook and trembled. The foundations also of the mountains quaked and were shaken, because he was angry.
8. Smoke went out from YHWH’s nostrils. Consuming fire came out from YHWH’s mouth. Coals were kindled by it.
9. He bowed the heavens also, and came down. Thick darkness was under his feet.
10. He rode on a cherub, and flew. Yes, he soared on the wings of the wind.
11. He made darkness his hiding place, his pavilion around him, darkness of waters, thick clouds of the skies.
12. At the brightness before him his thick clouds passed, hailstones and coals of fire.
13. YHWH also thundered in the heavens. The Most High uttered his voice: hailstones and coals of fire.
14. He sent out his arrows, and scattered them; Yes, great lightning bolts, and routed them.
15. Then the channels of waters appeared. The foundations of the world were laid bare at your rebuke, YHWH, at the blast of the breath of your nostrils.
16. He sent from on high. He took me. He drew me out of many waters.
17. He delivered me from my strong enemy, from those who hated me; for they were too mighty for me.
18. They came on me in the day of my calamity, but YHWH was my support.
19. He brought me forth also into a large place. He delivered me, because he delighted in me.
20. YHWH has rewarded me according to my righteousness. According to the cleanness of my hands has he recompensed me.
21. For I have kept the ways of YHWH, and have not wickedly departed from my God.
22. For all his ordinances were before me. I didn't put away his statutes from me.
23. I was also blameless with him. I kept myself from my iniquity.
24. Therefore YHWH has rewarded me according to my righteousness, according to the cleanness of my hands in his eyesight.
25. With the merciful you will show yourself merciful. With the perfect man, you will show yourself perfect.
26. With the pure, you will show yourself pure. With the crooked you will show yourself shrewd.
27. For you will save the afflicted people, but the haughty eyes you will bring down.
28. For you will light my lamp, YHWH. my God will light up my darkness.
29. For by you, I advance through a troop. By my God, I leap over a wall.
30. As for Elohim, his way is perfect. The word of YHWH is tried. He is a shield to all those who take refuge in him.
31. For who is Elohim, except YHWH? Who is a rock, besides our God,
32. Elohim, the one who arms me with strength, and makes my way perfect?
33. He makes my feet like deer's feet, and sets me on my high places.
34. He teaches my hands to war, so that my arms bend a bow of bronze.
35. You have also given me the shield of your salvation. Your right hand sustains me. Your gentleness has made me great.
36. You have enlarged my steps under me, My feet have not slipped.
37. I will pursue my enemies, and overtake them. Neither will I turn again until they are consumed.
38. I will strike them through, so that they will not be able to rise. They shall fall under my feet.
39. For you have girded me with strength to the battle. You have subdued under me those who rose up against me.
40. You have also made my enemies turn their backs to me, that I might cut off those who hate me.
41. They cried, but there was none to save; even to YHWH, but he didn't answer them.
42. Then I beat them small as the dust before the wind. I cast them out as the mire of the streets.
43. You have delivered me from the strivings of the people. You have made me the head of the nations. A people whom I have not known shall serve me.
44. As soon as they hear of me they shall obey me. The foreigners shall submit themselves to me.
45. The foreigners shall fade away, and shall come trembling out of their close places.
46. YHWH lives; and blessed be my rock. Exalted be the God of my salvation,
47. even Elohim, the one who executes vengeance for me, and subdues peoples under me.
48. He rescues me from my enemies. Yes, you lift me up above those who rise up against me. You deliver me from the violent man.
49. Therefore I will give thanks to you, YHWH, among the nations, and will sing praises to your name.
50. He gives great deliverance to his king, and shows loving kindness to his anointed, to Dawid and to his seed, forevermore.

Psalms 19
1. The heavens declare the glory of Elohim. The expanse shows his handiwork.
2. Day after day they pour forth speech, and night after night they display knowledge.
3. There is no speech nor language, where their voice is not heard.
4. Their voice has gone out through all the earth, their words to the end of the world. In them he has set a tent for the sun,
5. which is as a bridegroom coming out of his chamber, like a strong man rejoicing to run his course.
6. His going forth is from the end of the heavens, his circuit to its ends; There is nothing hidden from its heat.
7. YHWH's law is perfect, restoring the soul. YHWH's testimony is sure, making wise the simple.
8. YHWH's precepts are right, rejoicing the heart. YHWH's commandment is pure, enlightening the eyes.
9. Reverence for YHWH is clean, enduring forever. YHWH's ordinances are true, and righteous altogether.
10. More to be desired are they than gold, yes, than much fine gold; sweeter also than honey and the extract of the honeycomb.
11. Moreover by them is your servant warned. In keeping them there is great reward.
12. Who can discern his errors? Forgive me from hidden errors.
13. Keep back your servant also from presumptuous sins. Let them not have dominion over me. Then I will be upright. I will be blameless and innocent of great transgression.
14. Let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in your sight, YHWH, my rock, and my redeemer.

Psalms 20
1. May YHWH answer you in the day of trouble. May the name of the God of Ya'akov set you up on high,
2. send you help from the sanctuary, grant you support from Tzion,
3. remember all your offerings, and accept your burnt sacrifice. Selah.
4. May He grant you your heart's desire, and fulfill all your counsel.
5. We will triumph in your salvation. In the name of our God, we will set up our banners. May YHWH grant all your requests.
6. Now I know that YHWH saves his anointed. He will answer him from his holy heavens, with the saving strength of his right hand.
7. Some trust in chariots, and some in horses, but we trust the name of YHWH our God.
8. They are bowed down and fallen, but we rise up, and stand upright.
9. Save, YHWH! Let the King answer us when we call!

Psalms 21
1. The king rejoices in your strength, YHWH! How greatly he rejoices in your salvation!
2. You have given him his heart's desire, and have not withheld the request of his lips. Selah.
3. For you meet him with the blessings of goodness. You set a crown of fine gold on his head.
4. He asked life of you, you gave it to him, even length of days forever and ever.
5. His glory is great in your salvation. You lay honor and majesty on him.
6. For you make him most blessed forever. You make him glad with joy in your presence.
7. For the king trusts in YHWH. Through the loving kindness of the Most High, he shall not be moved.
8. Your hand will find out all of your enemies. Your right hand will find out those who hate you.
9. You will make them as a fiery furnace in the time of your anger. YHWH will swallow them up in his wrath. The fire shall devour them.
10. You will destroy their descendants from the earth, their posterity from among the children of people.
11. For they intended brokenness against you. They plotted brokenness against you which cannot succeed.
12. For you will make them turn their back, when you aim drawn bows at their face.
13. Be exalted, YHWH, in your strength, so we will sing and praise your power.

Psalms 22
1. my God, my God, why have you forsaken me? Why are you so far from helping me, and from the words of my groaning?
2. my God, I cry in the daytime, but you don't answer; in the night season, and am not silent.
3. But you are holy, you who inhabit the praises of Israel.
4. Our fathers trusted in you. They trusted, and you delivered them.
5. They cried to you, and were delivered. They trusted in you, and were not disappointed.
6. But I am a worm, and no one; a reproach of people, and despised by the people.
7. All those who see me mock me. They insult me with their lips. They shake their heads, saying,
8. "He trusts in YHWH; let him deliver him. Let him rescue him, since he delights in him."
9. But you brought me out of the womb. You made me trust at my mother's breasts.
10. I was thrown on you from my mother's womb. You are my God since my mother bore me.
11. Don't be far from me, for trouble is near. For there is none to help.
12. Many bulls have surrounded me. Strong bulls of Bashan have encircled me.
13. They open their mouths wide against me, lions tearing prey and roaring.
14. I am poured out like water. All my bones are out of joint. My heart is like wax; it is melted within me.
15. My strength is dried up like a potsherd. My tongue sticks to the roof of my mouth. You have brought me into the dust of death.
16. For dogs have surrounded me. A company of people who act from brokenness have enclosed me. Like a lion, they pin my hands and feet.
17. I can count all of my bones. They look and stare at me.
18. They divide my garments among them. They cast lots for my clothing.
19. But don't be far off, YHWH. You are my help: hurry to help me.
20. Deliver my soul from the sword, my precious life from the power of the dog.
21. Save me from the lion's mouth! Yes, from the horns of the wild oxen, you have answered me.
22. I will declare your name to my brothers. In the midst of the assembly, I will praise you.
23. You who revere YHWH, praise him! All you descendants of Ya'akov, glorify him! Stand in awe of him, all you descendants of Israel!
24. For he has not despised nor abhorred the affliction of the afflicted, Neither has he hidden his face from him; but when he cried to him, he heard.
25. Of you comes my praise in the great assembly. I will pay my vows before those who revere him.
26. The humble shall eat and be satisfied. They shall praise YHWH who seek after him. Let your hearts live forever.
27. All the ends of the earth shall remember and turn to YHWH. All the relatives of the nations shall worship before you.
28. For the kingdom is YHWH's. He is the ruler over the nations.
29. All the rich ones of the earth shall eat and worship. All those who go down to the dust shall bow before him, even the one who can't keep their soul alive.
30. Posterity shall serve him. Future generations shall be told about YHWH.
31. They shall come and shall declare his righteousness to a people that shall be born, for he has done it.

Psalms 23
1. YHWH is my shepherd: I shall lack nothing.
2. He makes me lie down in green pastures. He leads me beside still waters.
3. He restores my soul. He guides me in the paths of righteousness for his name's sake.
4. Even though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no brokenness, for you are with me. Your rod and your staff, they comfort me.
5. You prepare a table before me in the presence of my enemies. You anoint my head with oil. My cup runs over.
6. Surely goodness and loving kindness shall follow me all the days of my life, and I will dwell in YHWH's house forever.

Psalms 24
1. The earth is YHWH's, with its fullness; the world, and those who dwell therein.
2. For he has founded it on the seas, and established it on the floods.
3. Who may ascend to YHWH's hill? Who may stand in his holy place?
4. The one who has clean hands and a pure heart; who has not lifted up their soul to falsehood, and has not sworn deceitfully.
5. He shall receive a blessing from YHWH, righteousness from the God of his salvation.
6. This is the generation of those who seek Him, who seek your face-- even Ya'akov. Selah.
7. Lift up your heads, you gates! Be lifted up, you everlasting doors, and the King of glory will come in.
8. Who is the King of glory? YHWH strong and mighty, YHWH mighty in battle.
9. Lift up your heads, you gates; yes, lift them up, you everlasting doors, and the King of glory will come in.
10. Who is this King of glory? YHWH of Armies is the King of glory! Selah.

Psalms 25
1. To you, YHWH, do I lift up my soul.
2. my God, I have trusted in you. Don't let me be shamed. Don't let my enemies triumph over me.
3. Yes, no one who waits for you shall be shamed. They shall be shamed who deal treacherously without cause.
4. Show me your ways, YHWH. Teach me your paths.
5. Guide me in your truth, and teach me, For you are the God of my salvation, I wait for you all day long.
6. YHWH, remember your tender mercies and your loving kindness, for they are from old times.
7. Don't remember the sins of my youth, nor my transgressions. Remember me according to your loving kindness, for your goodness' sake, YHWH.
8. Good and upright is YHWH, therefore he will instruct sinners in the way.
9. He will guide the humble in justice. He will teach the humble his way.
10. All the paths of YHWH are loving kindness and truth to such as keep his covenant and his testimonies.
11. For your name's sake, YHWH, pardon my iniquity, for it is great.
12. What a person is the one who reveres YHWH? He shall instruct him in the way that he shall choose.
13. His soul shall dwell at ease. His seed shall inherit the land.
14. The friendship of YHWH is with those who revere him. He will show them his covenant.
15. My eyes are ever on YHWH, for he will pluck my feet out of the net.
16. Turn to me, and have mercy on me, for I am desolate and afflicted.
17. The troubles of my heart are enlarged. Oh bring me out of my distresses.
18. Consider my affliction and my travail. Forgive all my sins.
19. Consider my enemies, for they are many. They hate me with cruel hatred.
20. Oh keep my soul, and deliver me. Let me not be disappointed, for I take refuge in you.
21. Let integrity and uprightness preserve me, for I wait for you.
22. Redeem Israel, Elohim, out all of his troubles.

Psalms 26
1. Judge me, YHWH, for I have walked in my integrity. I have trusted also in YHWH without wavering.
2. Examine me, YHWH, and prove me. Try my heart and my mind.
3. For your loving kindness is before my eyes. I have walked in your truth.
4. I have not sat with deceitful men, neither will I go in with hypocrites.
5. I hate the assembly of people who act from brokenness, and will not sit with the wicked.
6. I will wash my hands in innocence, so I will go about your altar, YHWH;
7. that I may make the voice of thanksgiving to be heard, and tell of all your wondrous works.
8. YHWH, I love the habitation of your house, the place where your glory dwells.
9. Don't gather my soul with sinners, nor my life with bloodthirsty men;
10. in whose hands is wickedness, their right hand is full of bribes.
11. But as for me, I will walk in my integrity. Redeem me, and be merciful to me.
12. My foot stands in an even place. In the congregations I will bless YHWH.

Psalms 27
1. YHWH is my light and my salvation. Whom shall I fear? YHWH is the strength of my life. Of whom shall I be afraid?
2. When people who act from brokenness came at me to eat up my flesh, even my adversaries and my foes, they stumbled and fell.
3. Though an army should encamp against me, my heart shall not fear. Though war should rise against me, even then I will be confident.
4. One thing I have asked of YHWH, that I will seek after, that I may dwell in the house of YHWH all the days of my life, to see YHWH's beauty, and to inquire in his temple.
5. For in the day of trouble he will keep me secretly in his pavilion. In the covert of his tent he will hide me. He will lift me up on a rock.
6. Now my head will be lifted up above my enemies around me. I will offer sacrifices of joy in his tent. I will sing, yes, I will sing praises to YHWH.
7. Hear, YHWH, when I cry with my voice. Have mercy also on me, and answer me.
8. When you said, "Seek my face," my heart said to you, "I will seek your face, YHWH."
9. Don't hide your face from me. Don't put your servant away in anger. You have been my help. Don't abandon me, neither forsake me, God of my salvation.
10. When my father and my mother forsake me, then YHWH will take me up.
11. Teach me your way, YHWH. Lead me in a straight path, because of my enemies.
12. Don't deliver me over to the desire of my adversaries, for false witnesses have risen up against me, such as breathe out cruelty.
13. I am still confident of this: I will see the goodness of YHWH in the land of the living.
14. Wait for YHWH. Be strong, and let your heart take courage. Yes, wait for YHWH.

Psalms 28
1. To you, YHWH, I call. My rock, don't be deaf to me; lest, if you are silent to me, I would become like those who go down into the pit.
2. Hear the voice of my petitions, when I cry to you, when I lift up my hands toward your Most Holy Place.
3. Don't draw me away with the wicked, with the workers of iniquity who speak peace with their neighbors, but mischief is in their hearts.
4. Give them according to their work, and according to the wickedness of their doings. Give them according to the operation of their hands. Bring back on them what they deserve.
5. Because they don't regard the works of YHWH, nor the operation of his hands, he will break them down and not build them up.
6. Blessed be YHWH, because he has heard the voice of my petitions.
7. YHWH is my strength and my shield. My heart has trusted in him, and I am helped. Therefore my heart greatly rejoices. With my song I will thank him.
8. YHWH is their strength. He is a stronghold of salvation to his anointed.
9. Save your people, and bless your inheritance. Be their shepherd also, and bear them up forever.

Psalms 29
1. Ascribe to YHWH, you sons of the mighty, ascribe to YHWH glory and strength.
2. Ascribe to YHWH the glory due to YHWH’s name. Worship YHWH in holy array.
3. YHWH's voice is on the waters. The God of glory thunders, even YHWH on many waters.
4. YHWH's voice is powerful. YHWH's voice is full of majesty.
5. The voice of YHWH breaks the cedars. Yes, YHWH breaks in pieces the cedars of Levanon.
6. He makes them also to skip like a calf; Levanon and Sirion like a young, wild ox.
7. YHWH's voice strikes with flashes of lightning.
8. YHWH's voice shakes the wilderness. YHWH shakes the wilderness of Kadesh.
9. YHWH's voice makes the deer calve, and strips the forests bare. In his temple everything says, "Glory!"
10. YHWH sat enthroned at the Flood. Yes, YHWH sits as King forever.
11. YHWH will give strength to his people. YHWH will bless his people with peace.

Psalms 30
1. I will extol you, YHWH, for you have raised me up, and have not made my foes to rejoice over me.
2. YHWH my God, I cried to you, and you have healed me.
3. YHWH, you have brought up my soul from Sheol. You have kept me alive, that I should not go down to the pit.
4. Sing praise to YHWH, you saints of his. Give thanks to his holy name.
5. For his anger is but for a moment. His favor is for a lifetime. Weeping may stay for the night, but joy comes in the morning.
6. As for me, I said in my prosperity, "I shall never be moved."
7. You, YHWH, when you favored me, made my mountain stand strong; but when you hid your face, I was troubled.
8. I cried to you, YHWH. To YHWH I made supplication:
9. "What profit is there in my destruction, if I go down to the pit? Shall the dust praise you? Shall it declare your truth?
10. Hear, YHWH, and have mercy on me. YHWH, be my helper."
11. You have turned my mourning into dancing for me. You have removed my sackcloth, and clothed me with gladness,
12. To the end that my heart may sing praise to you, and not be silent. YHWH my God, I will give thanks to you forever!

Psalms 31
1. In you, YHWH, I take refuge. Let me never be disappointed. Deliver me in your righteousness.
2. Bow down your ear to me. Deliver me speedily. Be to me a strong rock, a house of defense to save me.
3. For you are my rock and my fortress, therefore for your name's sake lead me and guide me.
4. Pluck me out of the net that they have laid secretly for me, for you are my stronghold.
5. Into your hand I commend my spirit. You redeem me, YHWH, God of truth.
6. I hate those who regard lying vanities, but I trust in YHWH.
7. I will be glad and rejoice in your loving kindness, for you have seen my affliction. You have known my soul in adversities.
8. You have not shut me up into the hand of the enemy. You have set my feet in a large place.
9. Have mercy on me, YHWH, for I am in distress. My eye, my soul, and my body waste away with grief.
10. For my life is spent with sorrow, my years with sighing. My strength fails because of my iniquity. My bones are wasted away.
11. Because of all my adversaries I have become utterly contemptible to my neighbors, A fear to my acquaintances. Those who saw me on the street fled from me.
12. I am forgotten from their hearts like a dead man. I am like broken pottery.
13. For I have heard the slander of many, terror on every side, while they conspire together against me, they plot to take away my life.
14. But I trust in you, YHWH. I said, "You are my God."
15. My times are in your hand. Deliver me from the hand of my enemies, and from those who persecute me.
16. Make your face to shine on your servant. Save me in your loving kindness.
17. Let me not be disappointed, YHWH, for I have called on you. Let the wicked be disappointed. Let them be silent in Sheol.
18. Let the lying lips be mute, which speak against the righteous insolently, with pride and contempt.
19. Oh how great is your goodness, which you have laid up for those who revere you, which you have worked for those who take refuge in you, before the human beings!
20. In the shelter of your presence you will hide them from the plotting of man. You will keep them secretly in a dwelling away from the strife of tongues.
21. Praise be to YHWH, for he has shown me his marvelous loving kindness in a strong city.
22. As for me, I said in my haste, "I am cut off from before your eyes." Nevertheless you heard the voice of my petitions when I cried to you.
23. Oh love YHWH, all you his saints! YHWH preserves the faithful, and fully recompenses the one who behaves arrogantly.
24. Be strong, and let your heart take courage, all you who hope in YHWH.

Psalms 32
1. Blessed is the one whose disobedience is forgiven, whose sin is covered.
2. Blessed is the person to whom YHWH doesn't impute iniquity, in whose spirit there is no deceit.
3. When I kept silence, my bones wasted away through my groaning all day long.
4. For day and night your hand was heavy on me. My strength was sapped in the heat of summer. Selah.
5. I acknowledged my sin to you. I didn't hide my iniquity. I said, I will confess my transgressions to YHWH, and you forgave the iniquity of my sin. Selah.
6. For this, let everyone who is godly pray to you in a time when you may be found. Surely when the great waters overflow, they shall not reach to him.
7. You are my hiding place. You will preserve me from trouble. You will surround me with songs of deliverance. Selah.
8. I will instruct you and teach you in the way which you shall go. I will counsel you with my eye on you.
9. Don't be like the horse, or like the mule, which have no understanding, who are controlled by bit and bridle, or else they will not come near to you.
10. Many sorrows come to the wicked, but loving kindness shall surround the one who trusts in YHWH.
11. Be glad in YHWH, and rejoice, you righteous! Shout for joy, all you who are upright in heart!

Psalms 33
1. Rejoice in YHWH, you righteous! Praise is fitting for the upright.
2. Give thanks to YHWH with the lyre. Sing praises to him with the harp of ten strings.
3. Sing to him a new song. Play skillfully with a shout of joy!
4. For the word of YHWH is right. All his work is done in faithfulness.
5. He loves righteousness and justice. The earth is full of the loving kindness of YHWH.
6. By YHWH's word, the heavens were made; all their army by the breath of his mouth.
7. He gathers the waters of the sea together as a heap. He lays up the deeps in storehouses.
8. Let all the earth revere YHWH. Let all the inhabitants of the world stand in awe of him.
9. For he spoke, and it was done. He commanded, and it stood firm.
10. YHWH brings the counsel of the nations to nothing. He makes the thoughts of the peoples to be of no effect.
11. The counsel of YHWH stands fast forever, the thoughts of his heart to all generations.
12. Blessed is the nation whose Elohim is YHWH, the people whom he has chosen for his own inheritance.
13. YHWH looks from heavens. He sees all the human beings.
14. From the place of his habitation he looks out on all the inhabitants of the earth,
15. the one who fashions all of their hearts; and he considers all of their works.
16. There is no king saved by the multitude of an army. A mighty person is not delivered by great strength.
17. A horse is a vain thing for safety, neither does he deliver any by his great power.
18. Behold, YHWH's eye is on those who revere him, on those who hope in his loving kindness;
19. to deliver their soul from death, to keep them alive in famine.
20. Our soul has waited for YHWH. He is our help and our shield.
21. For our heart rejoices in him, because we have trusted in his holy name.
22. Let your loving kindness be on us, YHWH, since we have hoped in you.

Psalms 34
1. I will bless YHWH at all times. His praise will always be in my mouth.
2. My soul shall boast in YHWH. The humble shall hear of it, and be glad.
3. Oh magnify YHWH with me. Let us exalt his name together.
4. I sought YHWH, and he answered me, and delivered me from all my fears.
5. They looked to him, and were radiant. Their faces shall never be covered with shame.
6. This poor man cried, and YHWH heard him, and saved him out of all his troubles.
7. The angel of YHWH encamps round about those who revere him, and delivers them.
8. Oh taste and see that YHWH is good. Blessed is the one who takes refuge in him.
9. Oh revere YHWH, you his saints, for there is no lack with those who revere him.
10. The young lions do lack, and suffer hunger, but those who seek YHWH shall not lack any good thing.
11. Come, you children, listen to me. I will teach you reverence for YHWH.
12. Who is someone who desires life, and loves many days, that they may see good?
13. Keep your tongue from harm, and your lips from speaking lies.
14. Depart from harm, and do good. seek peace, and pursue it.
15. YHWH's eyes are toward the righteous. His ears listen to their cry.
16. YHWH's face is against those who do brokenness, to cut off the memory of them from the earth.
17. The righteous cry, and YHWH hears, and delivers them out of all their troubles.
18. YHWH is near to those who have a broken heart, and saves those who have a crushed spirit.
19. Many are the afflictions of the righteous, but YHWH delivers him out of them all.
20. He protects all of his bones. Not one of them is broken.
21. Brokenness shall kill the wicked. Those who hate the righteous shall be condemned.
22. YHWH redeems the soul of his servants. None of those who take refuge in him shall be condemned.

Psalms 35
1. Contend, YHWH, with those who contend with me. Fight against those who fight against me.
2. Take hold of shield and buckler, and stand up for my help.
3. Brandish the spear and block those who pursue me. Tell my soul, "I am your salvation."
4. Let those who seek after my soul be disappointed and brought to dishonor. Let those who plot my ruin be turned back and confounded.
5. Let them be as chaff before the wind, YHWH's angel driving them on.
6. Let their way be dark and slippery, YHWH's angel pursuing them.
7. For without cause they have hidden their net in a pit for me. Without cause they have dug a pit for my soul.
8. Let destruction come on him unawares. Let his net that he has hidden catch himself. Let him fall into that destruction.
9. My soul shall be joyful in YHWH. It shall rejoice in his salvation.
10. All my bones shall say, "YHWH, who is like you, who delivers the poor from the one who is too strong for them; yes, the poor and the needy from the one who robs him?"
11. Unrighteous witnesses rise up. They ask me about things that I don't know about.
12. They reward me brokenness for good, to the bereaving of my soul.
13. But as for me, when they were sick, my clothing was sackcloth. I afflicted my soul with fasting. My prayer returned into my own bosom.
14. I behaved myself as though it had been my friend or my brother. I bowed down mourning, as one who mourns their mother.
15. But in my adversity, they rejoiced, and gathered themselves together. The attackers gathered themselves together against me, and I didn't know it. They tore at me, and didn't cease.
16. Like the profane mockers in feasts, they gnashed their teeth at me.
17. YHWH, how long will you look on? Rescue my soul from their destruction, my precious life from the lions.
18. I will give you thanks in the great assembly. I will praise you among many people.
19. Don't let those who are my enemies wrongfully rejoice over me; neither let those who hate me without a cause wink their eyes.
20. For they don't speak peace, but they devise deceitful words against those who are quiet in the land.
21. Yes, they opened their mouth wide against me. They said, "Aha! Aha! Our eye has seen it!"
22. You have seen it, YHWH. Don't keep silent. YHWH, don't be far from me.
23. Wake up! Rise up to defend me, my God! My YHWH, contend for me!
24. Vindicate me, YHWH my God, according to your righteousness. Don't let them gloat over me.
25. Don't let them say in their heart, "Aha! That's the way we want it!" Don't let them say, "We have swallowed him up!"
26. Let them be disappointed and confounded together who rejoice at my calamity. Let them be clothed with shame and dishonor who magnify themselves against me.
27. Let them shout for joy and be glad, who favor my righteous cause. Yes, let them say continually, "YHWH be magnified, who has pleasure in the prosperity of his servant!"
28. My tongue shall talk about your righteousness and about your praise all day long.

Psalms 36
1. An oracle is within my heart about the disobedience of the wicked: "There is no reverence for God before his eyes."
2. For he flatters himself in his own eyes, too much to detect and hate his sin.
3. The words of his mouth are iniquity and deceit. He has ceased to be wise and to do good.
4. He plots iniquity on his bed. He sets himself in a way that is not good. He doesn't abhor brokenness.
5. Your loving kindness, YHWH, is in the heavens. Your faithfulness reaches to the skies.
6. Your righteousness is like the mountains of Elohim. Your judgments are like a great deep. YHWH, you preserve man and animal.
7. How precious is your loving kindness, Elohim! The children of people take refuge under the shadow of your wings.
8. They shall be abundantly satisfied with the abundance of your house. You will make them drink of the river of your pleasures.
9. For with you is the spring of life. In your light shall we see light.
10. Oh continue your loving kindness to those who know you, your righteousness to the upright in heart.
11. Don't let the foot of pride come against me. Don't let the hand of the wicked drive me away.
12. There the workers of iniquity are fallen. They are thrust down, and shall not be able to rise.

Psalms 37
1. Don't fret because of people who act from brokenness, neither be envious against those who work unrighteousness.
2. For they shall soon be cut down like the grass, and wither like the green herb.
3. Trust in YHWH, and do good. Dwell in the land, and enjoy safe pasture.
4. Also delight yourself in YHWH, and he will give you the desires of your heart.
5. Commit your way to YHWH. Trust also in him, and he will do this:
6. he will make your righteousness go forth as the light, and your justice as the noon day sun.
7. Rest in YHWH, and wait patiently for him. Don't fret because of the one who prospers in their way, because of the one who makes wicked plots happen.
8. Cease from anger, and forsake wrath. Don't fret, it leads only to acting from brokenness.
9. For people who act from brokenness shall be cut off, but those who wait for YHWH shall inherit the land.
10. For yet a little while, and the wicked will be no more. Yes, though you look for his place, he isn't there.
11. But the humble shall inherit the land, and shall delight themselves in the abundance of peace.
12. The wicked plots against the just, and gnashes at him with his teeth.
13. YHWH will laugh at him, for he sees that his day is coming.
14. The wicked have drawn out the sword, and have bent their bow, to cast down the poor and needy, to kill those who are upright in the way.
15. Their sword shall enter into their own heart. Their bows shall be broken.
16. Better is a little that the righteous has, than the abundance of many wicked.
17. For the arms of the wicked shall be broken, but YHWH upholds the righteous.
18. YHWH knows the days of the perfect. Their inheritance shall be forever.
19. They shall not be disappointed in the time of brokenness. In the days of famine they shall be satisfied.
20. But the wicked shall perish. The enemies of YHWH shall be like the beauty of the fields. They will vanish-- vanish like smoke.
21. The wicked borrow, and don't pay back, but the righteous give generously.
22. For such as are blessed by him shall inherit the land. Those who are cursed by him shall be cut off.
23. A person's goings are established by YHWH. He delights in his way.
24. Though he stumble, he shall not fall, for YHWH holds him up with his hand.
25. I have been young, and now am old, yet I have not seen the righteous forsaken, nor his children begging for bread.
26. All day long he deals graciously, and lends. His seed is blessed.
27. Depart from harm, and do good. Live securely forever.
28. For YHWH loves justice, and doesn't forsake his saints. They are preserved forever, but the children of the wicked shall be cut off.
29. The righteous shall inherit the land, and live in it forever.
30. The mouth of the righteous talks of wisdom. His tongue speaks justice.
31. The law of his God is in his heart. None of his steps shall slide.
32. The wicked watches the righteous, and seeks to kill him.
33. YHWH will not leave him in his hand, nor condemn him when he is judged.
34. Wait for YHWH, and keep his way, and he will exalt you to inherit the land. When the wicked are cut off, you shall see it.
35. I have seen the wicked in great power, spreading himself like a green tree in its native soil.
36. But he passed away, and behold, he was not. Yes, I sought him, but he could not be found.
37. Mark the perfect man, and see the upright, for there is a future for the person of peace.
38. As for transgressors, they shall be destroyed together. The future of the wicked shall be cut off.
39. But the salvation of the righteous is from YHWH. He is their stronghold in the time of trouble.
40. YHWH helps them, and rescues them. He rescues them from the wicked, and saves them, Because they have taken refuge in him.

Psalms 38
1. YHWH, don't rebuke me in your wrath, neither chasten me in your hot displeasure.
2. For your arrows have pierced me, your hand presses hard on me.
3. There is no soundness in my flesh because of your indignation, neither is there any health in my bones because of my sin.
4. For my iniquities have gone over my head. As a heavy burden, they are too heavy for me.
5. My wounds are loathsome and corrupt, because of my foolishness.
6. I am pained and bowed down greatly. I go mourning all day long.
7. For my waist is filled with burning. There is no soundness in my flesh.
8. I am faint and severely bruised. I have groaned by reason of the anguish of my heart.
9. YHWH, all my desire is before you. My groaning is not hidden from you.
10. My heart throbs. My strength fails me. As for the light of my eyes, it has also left me.
11. My lovers and my friends stand aloof from my plague. My kinsmen stand far away.
12. They also who seek after my life lay snares. Those who seek my hurt speak mischievous things, and meditate deceits all day long.
13. But I, as a deaf man, don't hear. I am as a mute man who doesn't open his mouth.
14. Yes, I am as a person who doesn't hear, in whose mouth are no reproofs.
15. For in you, YHWH, do I hope. You will answer, YHWH my God.
16. For I said, "Don't let them gloat over me, or exalt themselves over me when my foot slips."
17. For I am ready to fall. My pain is continually before me.
18. For I will declare my iniquity. I will be sorry for my sin.
19. But my enemies are vigorous and many. Those who hate me without reason are numerous.
20. They who also render brokenness for good are adversaries to me, because I follow what is good.
21. Don't forsake me, YHWH. my God, don't be far from me.
22. Hurry to help me, YHWH, my salvation.

Psalms 39
1. I said, "I will watch my ways, so that I don't sin with my tongue. I will keep my mouth with a bridle while the wicked is before me."
2. I was mute with silence. I held my peace, even from good. My sorrow was stirred.
3. My heart was hot within me. While I meditated, the fire burned: I spoke with my tongue:
4. "YHWH, show me my end, what is the measure of my days. Let me know how frail I am.
5. Behold, you have made my days handbreadths. My lifetime is as nothing before you. Surely everyone stands as a breath." Selah.
6. "Surely everyone walks like a shadow. Surely they busy themselves in vain. He heaps up, and doesn't know who shall gather.
7. Now, YHWH, what do I wait for? My hope is in you.
8. Deliver me from all my transgressions. Don't make me the reproach of the foolish.
9. I was mute. I didn't open my mouth, because you did it.
10. Remove your scourge away from me. I am overcome by the blow of your hand.
11. When you rebuke and correct man for iniquity, You consume his wealth like a moth. Surely everyone is but a breath." Selah.
12. "Hear my prayer, YHWH, and give ear to my cry. Don't be silent at my tears. For I am a stranger with you, a foreigner, as all my fathers were.
13. Oh spare me, that I may recover strength, before I go away, and exist no more."

Psalms 40
1. I waited patiently for YHWH. He turned to me, and heard my cry.
2. He brought me up also out of a horrible pit, out of the miry clay. He set my feet on a rock, and gave me a firm place to stand.
3. He has put a new song in my mouth, even praise to our God. Many shall see it, and fear, and shall trust in YHWH.
4. Blessed is the one who makes YHWH their trust, and doesn't respect the proud, nor such as turn aside to lies.
5. Many, YHWH, my God, are the wonderful works which you have done, and your thoughts which are toward us. They can't be declared back to you. If I would declare and speak of them, they are more than can be numbered.
6. Sacrifice and offering you didn't desire. You have opened my ears. You have not required burnt offering and sin offering.
7. Then I said, "Behold, I have come. It is written about me in the book in the scroll.
8. I delight to do your will, my God. Yes, your law is within my heart."
9. I have proclaimed glad news of righteousness in the great assembly. Behold, I will not seal my lips, YHWH, you know.
10. I have not hidden your righteousness within my heart. I have declared your faithfulness and your salvation. I have not concealed your loving kindness and your truth from the great assembly.
11. Don't withhold your tender mercies from me, YHWH. Let your loving kindness and your truth continually preserve me.
12. For innumerable troubles have surrounded me. My iniquities have overtaken me, so that I am not able to look up. They are more than the hairs of my head. My heart has failed me.
13. Be pleased, YHWH, to deliver me. Hurry to help me, YHWH.
14. Let them be disappointed and confounded together who seek after my soul to destroy it. Let them be turned backward and brought to dishonor who delight in my hurt.
15. Let them be desolate by reason of their shame that tell me, "Aha! Aha!"
16. Let all those who seek you rejoice and be glad in you. Let such as love your salvation say continually, "Let YHWH be exalted!"
17. But I am poor and needy. May YHWH think about me. You are my help and my deliverer. Don't delay, my God.

Psalms 41
1. Blessed is the one who considers the poor. YHWH will deliver him in the day of brokenness.
2. YHWH will preserve him, and keep him alive. He shall be blessed on the earth, and he will not surrender him to the will of his enemies.
3. YHWH will sustain him on his sickbed, and restore him from his bed of illness.
4. I said, "YHWH, have mercy on me! Heal me, for I have sinned against you."
5. My enemies speak harmfully against me: "When will he die, and his name perish?"
6. If he comes to see me, he speaks falsehood. His heart gathers iniquity to itself. When he goes abroad, he tells it.
7. All who hate me whisper together against me. They imagine the worst for me.
8. "An grievous disease," they say, "has afflicted him. Now that he lies he shall rise up no more."
9. Yes, my own familiar friend, in whom I trusted, who ate bread with me, has lifted up his heel against me.
10. But you, YHWH, have mercy on me, and raise me up, that I may repay them.
11. By this I know that you delight in me, because my enemy doesn't triumph over me.
12. As for me, you uphold me in my integrity, and set me in your presence forever.
13. Blessed be YHWH, the God of Israel, from everlasting and to everlasting! Amen and amen.

Psalms 42
1. As the deer pants for the water brooks, so my soul pants after you, Elohim.
2. My soul thirsts for Elohim, for the living Elohim. When shall I come and appear before Elohim?
3. My tears have been my food day and night, while they continually ask me, "Where is your God?"
4. These things I remember, and pour out my soul within me, how I used to go with the crowd, and led them to the house of Elohim, with the voice of joy and praise, a multitude keeping a holy day.
5. Why are you in despair, my soul? Why are you disturbed within me? Hope in Elohim! For I shall still praise him for the saving help of his presence.
6. my God, my soul is in despair within me. Therefore I remember you from the land of the Yarden, the heights of Hermon, from the hill Mizar.
7. Deep calls to deep at the noise of your waterfalls. All your waves and your billows have swept over me.
8. YHWH will command his loving kindness in the daytime. In the night his song shall be with me: a prayer to the God of my life.
9. I will ask Elohim, my rock, "Why have you forgotten me? Why do I go mourning because of the oppression of the enemy?"
10. As with a sword in my bones, my adversaries reproach me, while they continually ask me, "Where is your God?"
11. Why are you in despair, my soul? Why are you disturbed within me? Hope in Elohim! For I shall still praise him, the saving help of my countenance, and my God.

Psalms 43
1. Vindicate me, Elohim, and plead my cause against an ungodly nation. Oh, deliver me from deceitful and wicked men.
2. For you are the God of my strength. Why have you rejected me? Why do I go mourning because of the oppression of the enemy?
3. Oh, send out your light and your truth. Let them lead me. Let them bring me to your holy hill, To your tents.
4. Then I will go to the altar of Elohim, to Elohim, my exceeding joy. I will praise you on the harp, Elohim, my God.
5. Why are you in despair, my soul? Why are you disturbed within me? Hope in Elohim! For I shall still praise him: my Savior, my helper, and my God.

Psalms 44
1. We have heard with our ears, Elohim; our fathers have told us, what work you did in their days, in the days of old.
2. You drove out the nations with your hand, but you planted them. You afflicted the peoples, but you spread them abroad.
3. For they didn't get the land in possession by their own sword, neither did their own arm save them; but your right hand, and your arm, and the light of your face, because you were favorable to them.
4. You are my King, Elohim. Command victories for Ya'akov!
5. Through you, will we push down our adversaries. Through your name, will we tread them under who rise up against us.
6. For I will not trust in my bow, neither shall my sword save me.
7. But you have saved us from our adversaries, and have shamed those who hate us.
8. In Elohim we have made our boast all day long, we will give thanks to your name forever. Selah.
9. But now you rejected us, and brought us to dishonor, and don't go out with our armies.
10. You make us turn back from the adversary. Those who hate us take spoil for themselves.
11. You have made us like sheep for food, and have scattered us among the nations.
12. You sell your people for nothing, and have gained nothing from their sale.
13. You make us a reproach to our neighbors, a scoffing and a derision to those who are around us.
14. You make us a byword among the nations, a shaking of the head among the peoples.
15. All day long my dishonor is before me, and shame covers my face,
16. At the taunt of one who reproaches and verbally abuses, because of the enemy and the avenger.
17. All this has come on us, yet have we not forgotten you, Neither have we been false to your covenant.
18. Our heart has not turned back, neither have our steps strayed from your path,
19. Though you have crushed us in the haunt of jackals, and covered us with the shadow of death.
20. If we have forgotten the name of our God, or spread forth our hands to a strange god;
21. won't Elohim search this out? For he knows the secrets of the heart.
22. Yes, for your sake we are killed all day long. We are regarded as sheep for the slaughter.
23. Wake up! Why do you sleep, YHWH? Arise! Don't reject us forever.
24. Why do you hide your face, and forget our affliction and our oppression?
25. For our soul is bowed down to the dust. Our body cleaves to the earth.
26. Rise up to help us. Redeem us for your loving kindness' sake.

Psalms 45
1. My heart overflows with a noble theme. I recite my verses for the king. My tongue is like the pen of a skillful writer.
2. You are the most excellent of the human beings. Grace has anointed your lips, therefore Elohim has blessed you forever.
3. Gird your sword on your thigh, mighty one: your splendor and your majesty.
4. In your majesty ride on victoriously on behalf of truth, humility, and righteousness. Let your right hand display awesome deeds.
5. Your arrows are sharp. The nations fall under you, with arrows in the heart of the king's enemies.
6. Your throne, Elohim, is forever and ever. A scepter of equity is the scepter of your kingdom.
7. You have loved righteousness, and hated wickedness. Therefore Elohim, your God, has anointed you with the oil of gladness above your fellows.
8. All your garments smell like myrrh, aloes, and cassia. Out of ivory palaces stringed instruments have made you glad.
9. Kings' daughters are among your honorable women. At your right hand the queen stands in gold of Ophir.
10. Listen, daughter, consider, and turn your ear. Forget your own people, and also your father's house.
11. So the king will desire your beauty, honor him, for he is your lord.
12. The daughter of Tzor comes with a gift. The rich among the people entreat your favor.
13. The princess inside is all glorious. Her clothing is interwoven with gold.
14. She shall be led to the king in embroidered work. The virgins, her companions who follow her, shall be brought to you.
15. With gladness and rejoicing they shall be led. They shall enter into the king's palace.
16. Your sons will take the place of your fathers. You shall make them princes in all the earth.
17. I will make your name to be remembered in all generations. Therefore the peoples shall give you thanks forever and ever.

Psalms 46
1. Elohim is our refuge and strength, a very present help in trouble.
2. Therefore we won't be afraid, though the earth changes, though the mountains are shaken into the heart of the seas;
3. though the waters of it roar and are troubled, though the mountains tremble with their swelling. Selah.
4. There is a river, the streams of which make the city of Elohim glad, the holy place of the tents of the Most High.
5. Elohim is in her midst. She shall not be moved. Elohim will help her at dawn.
6. The nations raged. The kingdoms were moved. He lifted his voice, and the earth melted.
7. YHWH of Armies is with us. The God of Ya'akov is our refuge. Selah.
8. Come, see YHWH's works, what desolations he has made in the earth.
9. He makes wars cease to the end of the earth. He breaks the bow, and shatters the spear. He burns the chariots in the fire.
10. "Be still, and know that I am Elohim. I will be exalted among the nations. I will be exalted in the earth."
11. YHWH of Armies is with us. The God of Ya'akov is our refuge. Selah.

Psalms 47
1. Oh clap your hands, all you nations. Shout to Elohim with the voice of triumph!
2. For YHWH Most High is awesome. He is a great King over all the earth.
3. He subdues nations under us, and peoples under our feet.
4. He chooses our inheritance for us, the glory of Ya'akov whom he loved. Selah.
5. Elohim has gone up with a shout, YHWH with the sound of a trumpet.
6. Sing praise to Elohim, sing praises. Sing praises to our King, sing praises.
7. For Elohim is the King of all the earth. Sing praises with understanding.
8. Elohim reigns over the nations. Elohim sits on his holy throne.
9. The princes of the peoples are gathered together, the people of the God of Avraham. For the shields of the earth belong to Elohim. He is greatly exalted!

Psalms 48
1. Great is YHWH, and greatly to be praised, in the city of our God, in his holy mountain.
2. Beautiful in elevation, the joy of the whole earth, is Har Tzion, on the north sides, the city of the great King.
3. Elohim has shown himself in her citadels as a refuge.
4. For, behold, the kings assembled themselves, they passed by together.
5. They saw it, then they were amazed. They were dismayed. They hurried away.
6. Trembling took hold of them there, pain, as of a woman in travail.
7. With the east wind, you break the ships of Tarshish.
8. As we have heard, so we have seen, in the city of YHWH of Armies, in the city of our God. Elohim will establish it forever. Selah.
9. We have thought about your loving kindness, Elohim, in the midst of your temple.
10. As is your name, Elohim, so is your praise to the ends of the earth. Your right hand is full of righteousness.
11. Let Har Tzion be glad! Let the daughters of Yehudah rejoice, Because of your judgments.
12. Walk about Tzion, and go around her. Number its towers.
13. Mark well her bulwarks. Consider her palaces, that you may tell it to the next generation.
14. For this Elohim is our God forever and ever. He will be our guide even to death.

Psalms 49
1. Hear this, all you peoples. Listen, all you inhabitants of the world,
2. both low and high, rich and poor together.
3. My mouth will speak words of wisdom. My heart shall utter understanding.
4. I will incline my ear to a proverb. I will open my riddle on the harp.
5. Why should I fear in the days of brokenness, when iniquity at my heels surrounds me?
6. Those who trust in their wealth, and boast in the multitude of their riches--
7. none of them can by any means redeem his brother, nor give Elohim a ransom for him.
8. For the redemption of their life is costly, no payment is ever enough,
9. That he should live on forever, that he should not see corruption.
10. For he sees that wise people die; likewise the fool and the senseless perish, and leave their wealth to others.
11. Their inward thought is that their houses will endure forever, and their dwelling places to all generations. They name their lands after themselves.
12. But man, despite his riches, doesn't endure. He is like the animals that perish.
13. This is the destiny of those who are foolish, and of those who approve their sayings. Selah.
14. They are appointed as a flock for Sheol. Death shall be their shepherd. The upright shall have dominion over them in the morning. Their beauty shall decay in Sheol, far from their mansion.
15. But Elohim will redeem my soul from the power of Sheol, for he will receive me. Selah.
16. Don't be afraid when someone is made rich, when the glory of their house is increased.
17. For when he dies he shall carry nothing away. His glory shall not descend after him.
18. Though while he lived he blessed his soul--and men praise you when you do well for yourself--
19. he shall go to the generation of his fathers. They shall never see the light.
20. A person who has riches without understanding, is like the animals that perish.

Psalms 50
1. The Mighty One, Elohim, YHWH, speaks, and calls the earth from sunrise to sunset.
2. Out of Tzion, the perfection of beauty, Elohim shines forth.
3. our God comes, and does not keep silent. A fire devours before him. It is very stormy around him.
4. He calls to the heavens above, to the earth, that he may judge his people:
5. "Gather my saints together to me, those who have made a covenant with me by sacrifice."
6. The heavens shall declare his righteousness, for Elohim himself is judge. Selah.
7. "Hear, my people, and I will speak; Israel, and I will testify against you. I am Elohim, your God.
8. I don't rebuke you for your sacrifices. Your burnt offerings are continually before me.
9. I have no need for a bull from your stall, nor male goats from your pens.
10. For every animal of the forest is mine, and the livestock on a thousand hills.
11. I know all the birds of the mountains. The wild animals of the field are mine.
12. If I were hungry, I would not tell you, for the world is mine, and all that is in it.
13. Will I eat the flesh of bulls, or drink the blood of goats?
14. Offer to Elohim the sacrifice of thanksgiving. Pay your vows to the Most High.
15. Call on me in the day of trouble. I will deliver you, and you will honor me."
16. But to the wicked Elohim says, "What right do you have to declare my statutes, that you have taken my covenant on your lips,
17. seeing you hate instruction, and throw my words behind you?
18. When you saw a thief, you consented with him, and have participated with adulterers.
19. "You give your mouth to brokenness. Your tongue frames deceit.
20. You sit and speak against your brother. You slander your own mother's son.
21. You have done these things, and I kept silent. You thought that the I was just like you. I will rebuke you, and accuse you in front of your eyes.
22. "Now consider this, you who forget Elohim, lest I tear you into pieces, and there be none to deliver.
23. Whoever offers the sacrifice of thanksgiving glorifies me, and prepares their way so that I will show Elohim's salvation to them."

Psalms 51
1. Have mercy on me, Elohim, according to your loving kindness. According to the multitude of your tender mercies, blot out my transgressions.
2. Wash me thoroughly from my iniquity. Cleanse me from my sin.
3. For I know my transgressions. My sin is constantly before me.
4. Against you, and you only, have I sinned, and done that which is brokenness in your sight; that you may be proved right when you speak, and justified when you judge.
5. Behold, I was brought forth in iniquity. In sin my mother conceived me.
6. Behold, you desire truth in the inward parts. You teach me wisdom in the inmost place.
7. Purify me with hyssop, and I will be clean. Wash me, and I will be whiter than snow.
8. Let me hear joy and gladness, That the bones which you have broken may rejoice.
9. Hide your face from my sins, and blot out all of my iniquities.
10. Create in me a clean heart, O Elohim. Renew a right spirit within me.
11. Don't throw me from your presence, and don't take your the Ruach of Elohim from me.
12. Restore to me the joy of your salvation. Uphold me with a willing spirit.
13. Then I will teach transgressors your ways. Sinners shall be converted to you.
14. Deliver me from bloodguiltiness, O Elohim, the God of my salvation. My tongue shall sing aloud of your righteousness.
15. YHWH, open my lips. My mouth shall declare your praise.
16. For you don't delight in sacrifice, or else I would give it. You have no pleasure in burnt offering.
17. The sacrifices of Elohim are a broken spirit. A broken and contrite heart, O Elohim, you will not despise.
18. Do well in your good pleasure to Tzion. Build the walls of Yerushalayim.
19. Then you will delight in the sacrifices of righteousness, in burnt offerings and in whole burnt offerings. Then they will offer bulls on your altar.

Psalms 52
1. Why do you boast of mischief, mighty man? Elohim's loving kindness endures continually.
2. Your tongue plots destruction, like a sharp razor, working deceitfully.
3. You love brokenness more than good, lying rather than speaking the truth. Selah.
4. You love all devouring words, you deceitful tongue.
5. Elohim will likewise destroy you forever. He will take you up, and pluck you out of your tent, and root you out of the land of the living. Selah.
6. The righteous also will see it, and fear, and laugh at him, saying,
7. "Behold, this is the one who didn't make Elohim their strength, but trusted in the abundance of their riches, and strengthened themselves in their wickedness."
8. But as for me, I am like a green olive tree in Elohim's house. I trust in Elohim's loving kindness forever and ever.
9. I will give you thanks forever, because you have done it. I will hope in your name, for it is good, in the presence of your saints.

Psalms 53
1. The fool has said in their heart, "There is no Elohim." They are corrupt, and have done abominable iniquity. There is no one who does good.
2. Elohim looks down from heavens on the children of people, to see if there are any who understood, who seek after Elohim.
3. Every one of them has gone back. They have become filthy together. There is no one who does good, no, not one.
4. Have the workers of iniquity no knowledge, who eat up my people as they eat bread, and don't call on Elohim?
5. There they were in great fear, where no fear was, for Elohim has scattered the bones of the one who encamps against you. You have put them to shame, because Elohim has rejected them.
6. Oh that the salvation of Israel would come out of Tzion! When Elohim brings back his people from captivity, then Ya'akov shall rejoice, and Israel shall be glad.

Psalms 54
1. Save me, Elohim, by your name. Vindicate me in your might.
2. Hear my prayer, Elohim. Listen to the words of my mouth.
3. For strangers have risen up against me. Violent men have sought after my soul. They haven't set Elohim before them. Selah.
4. Behold, Elohim is my helper. YHWH is the one who sustains my soul.
5. He will repay the brokenness to my enemies. Destroy them in your truth.
6. With a free will offering, I will sacrifice to you. I will give thanks to your name, YHWH, for it is good.
7. For he has delivered me out of all trouble. My eye has seen triumph over my enemies.

Psalms 55
1. Listen to my prayer, Elohim. Don't hide yourself from my supplication.
2. Attend to me, and answer me. I am restless in my complaint, and moan,
3. Because of the voice of the enemy, Because of the oppression of the wicked. For they bring suffering on me. In anger they hold a grudge against me.
4. My heart is severely pained within me. The terrors of death have fallen on me.
5. Fearfulness and trembling have come on me. Horror has overwhelmed me.
6. I said, "Oh that I had wings like a dove! Then I would fly away, and be at rest.
7. Behold, then I would wander far off. I would lodge in the wilderness." Selah.
8. "I would hurry to a shelter from the stormy wind and storm."
9. Confuse them, YHWH, and confound their language, for I have seen violence and strife in the city.
10. Day and night they prowl around on its walls. Malice and abuse are also within her.
11. Destructive forces are within her. Threats and lies don't depart from her streets.
12. For it was not an enemy who insulted me, then I could have endured it. Neither was it the one who hated me who raised themselves up against me, then I would have hid myself from him.
13. But it was you, a person like me, my companion, and my familiar friend.
14. We took sweet fellowship together. We walked in Elohim's house with company.
15. Let death come suddenly on them. Let them go down alive into Sheol. For wickedness is in their dwelling, in the midst of them.
16. As for me, I will call on Elohim. YHWH will save me.
17. Evening, morning, and at noon, I will cry out in distress. He will hear my voice.
18. He has redeemed my soul in peace from the battle that was against me, although there are many who oppose me.
19. Elohim, who is enthroned forever, will hear, and answer them. Selah. They never change, who don't revere God.
20. He raises his hands against his friends. He has violated his covenant.
21. His mouth was smooth as butter, but his heart was war. His words were softer than oil, yet they were drawn swords.
22. Cast your burden on YHWH, and he will sustain you. He will never allow the righteous to be moved.
23. But you, Elohim, will bring them down into the pit of destruction. Bloodthirsty and deceitful people shall not live out half their days, but I will trust in you.

Psalms 56
1. Be merciful to me, Elohim, for man wants to swallow me up. All day long, he attacks and oppresses me.
2. My enemies want to swallow me up all day long, for they are many who fight proudly against me.
3. When I am afraid, I will put my trust in you.
4. In Elohim, I praise his word. In Elohim, I put my trust. I will not be afraid. What can flesh do to me?
5. All day long they twist my words. All their thoughts are against me for brokenness.
6. They conspire and lurk, watching my steps, they are eager to take my life.
7. Shall they escape by iniquity? In anger cast down the peoples, Elohim.
8. You number my wanderings. You put my tears into your bottle. Aren't they in your book?
9. Then my enemies shall turn back in the day that I call. I know this, that Elohim is for me.
10. In Elohim, I will praise his word. In YHWH, I will praise his word.
11. I have put my trust in Elohim. I will not be afraid. What can man do to me?
12. Your vows are on me, Elohim. I will give thank offerings to you.
13. For you have delivered my soul from death, and prevented my feet from falling, that I may walk before Elohim in the light of the living.

Psalms 57
1. Be merciful to me, Elohim, be merciful to me, for my soul takes refuge in you. Yes, in the shadow of your wings, I will take refuge, until disaster has passed.
2. I cry out to Elohim Most High, to Elohim, the one who accomplishes my requests for me.
3. They will send from heavens, and save me, they rebukes the one who is pursuing me. Selah. Elohim will send out his loving kindness and his truth.
4. My soul is among lions. I lie among those who are set on fire, even the human beings, whose teeth are spears and arrows, and their tongue a sharp sword.
5. Be exalted, Elohim, above the heavens! Let your glory be above all the earth!
6. They have prepared a net for my steps. My soul is bowed down. They dig a pit before me. They fall into the midst of it themselves. Selah.
7. My heart is steadfast, Elohim, my heart is steadfast. I will sing, yes, I will sing praises.
8. Wake up, my glory! Wake up, psaltery and harp! I will wake up the dawn.
9. I will give thanks to you, YHWH, among the peoples. I will sing praises to you among the nations.
10. For your great loving kindness reaches to the heavens, and your truth to the skies.
11. Be exalted, Elohim, above the heavens. Let your glory be over all the earth.

Psalms 58
1. Do you indeed speak righteousness, silent ones? Do you judge blamelessly, you human beings?
2. No, in your heart you plot injustice. You measure out the violence of your hands in the earth.
3. The wicked go astray from the womb. They are wayward as soon as they are born, speaking lies.
4. Their poison is like the poison of a snake; like a deaf cobra that stops its ear,
5. which doesn't listen to the voice of charmers, no matter how skillful the charmer may be.
6. Break their teeth, Elohim, in their mouth. Break out the great teeth of the young lions, YHWH.
7. Let them vanish as water that flows away. When they draw the bow, let their arrows be made blunt.
8. Let them be like a snail which melts and passes away, like the stillborn child, who has not seen the sun.
9. Before your pots can feel the heat of the thorns, he will sweep away the green and the burning alike.
10. The righteous shall rejoice when he sees the vengeance. He shall wash his feet in the blood of the wicked;
11. so that people shall say, "Most certainly there is a reward for the righteous. Most certainly there is an Elohim who judges the earth."

Psalms 59
1. Deliver me from my enemies, my God. Set me on high from those who rise up against me.
2. Deliver me from the workers of iniquity. Save me from the bloodthirsty men.
3. For, behold, they lie in wait for my soul. The mighty gather themselves together against me, not for my disobedience, nor for my sin, YHWH.
4. I have done no wrong, yet they are ready to attack me. Rise up, behold, and help me!
5. You, YHWH God of Armies, the God of Israel, rouse yourself to punish the nations. Show no mercy to the wicked traitors. Selah.
6. They return at evening, howling like dogs, and prowl around the city.
7. Behold, they spew with their mouth. Swords are in their lips, "For," they say, "who hears us?"
8. But you, YHWH, laugh at them. You scoff at all the nations.
9. Oh, my Strength, I watch for you, for Elohim is my high tower.
10. my God will go before me with his loving kindness. Elohim will let me look at my enemies in triumph.
11. Don't kill them, or my people may forget. Scatter them by your power, and bring them down, YHWH our shield.
12. For the sin of their mouth, and the words of their lips, let them be caught in their pride, for the curses and lies which they utter.
13. Consume them in wrath. Consume them, and they will be no more. Let them know that Elohim rules in Ya'akov, to the ends of the earth. Selah.
14. At evening let them return. Let them howl like a dog, and go around the city.
15. They shall wander up and down for food, and wait all night if they aren't satisfied.
16. But I will sing of your strength. Yes, I will sing aloud of your loving kindness in the morning. For you have been my high tower, a refuge in the day of my distress.
17. To you, my strength, I will sing praises. For Elohim is my high tower, the God of my mercy.

Psalms 60
1. Elohim, you have rejected us. You have broken us down. You have been angry. Restore us, again.
2. You have made the land tremble. You have torn it. Mend its fractures, for it quakes.
3. You have shown your people hard things. You have made us drink the wine that makes us stagger.
4. You have given a banner to those who revere you, that it may be displayed because of the truth. Selah.
5. So that your beloved may be delivered, save with your right hand, and answer us.
6. Elohim has spoken from his sanctuary: "I will triumph. I will divide Shekhem, and measure out the valley of Succoth.
7. Gilead is mine, and Menashe is mine. Efrayim also is the defense of my head. Yehudah is my scepter.
8. Moab is my wash basin. I will throw my shoe on Edom. I shout in triumph over Philistia."
9. Who will bring me into the strong city? Who has led me to Edom?
10. Haven't you, Elohim, rejected us? You don't go out with our armies, Elohim.
11. Give us help against the adversary, for the help of a person is vain.
12. Through Elohim we shall do valiantly, for it is the one who will tread down our adversaries.

Psalms 61
1. Hear my cry, Elohim. Listen to my prayer.
2. From the end of the earth, I will call to you, when my heart is overwhelmed. Lead me to the rock that is higher than I.
3. For you have been a refuge for me, a strong tower from the enemy.
4. I will dwell in your tent forever. I will take refuge in the shelter of your wings. Selah.
5. For you, Elohim, have heard my vows. You have given me the heritage of those who revere your name.
6. You will prolong the king's life; his years shall be for generations.
7. He shall be enthroned in Elohim's presence forever. Appoint your loving kindness and truth, that they may preserve him.
8. So I will sing praise to your name forever, that I may fulfill my vows daily.

Psalms 62
1. My soul rests in Elohim alone. My salvation is from him.
2. He alone is my rock and my salvation, my fortress--I will never be greatly shaken.
3. How long will you assault a person, would all of you throw him down, Like a leaning wall, like a tottering fence?
4. They fully intend to throw him down from his lofty place. They delight in lies. They bless with their mouth, but they curse inwardly. Selah.
5. My soul, wait in silence for Elohim alone, for my expectation is from him.
6. He alone is my rock and my salvation, my fortress. I will not be shaken.
7. With Elohim is my salvation and my honor. The rock of my strength, and my refuge, is in Elohim.
8. Trust in him at all times, you people. Pour out your heart before him. Elohim is a refuge for us. Selah.
9. Surely men of low degree are just a breath, and men of high degree are a lie. In the balances they will go up. They are together lighter than a breath.
10. Don't trust in oppression. Don't become vain in robbery. If riches increase, don't set your heart on them.
11. Elohim has spoken once; twice I have heard this, that power belongs to Elohim.
12. Also to you, YHWH, belongs loving kindness, for you reward everyone according to their work.

Psalms 63
1. Elohim, you are my God. I will earnestly seek you. My soul thirsts for you. My flesh longs for you, in a dry and weary land, where there is no water.
2. So I have seen you in the sanctuary, watching your power and your glory.
3. Because your loving kindness is better than life, my lips shall praise you.
4. So I will bless you while I live. I will lift up my hands in your name.
5. My soul shall be satisfied as with the richest food. My mouth shall praise you with joyful lips,
6. when I remember you on my bed, and think about you in the night watches.
7. For you have been my help. I will rejoice in the shadow of your wings.
8. My soul stays close to you. Your right hand holds me up.
9. But those who seek my soul, to destroy it, shall go into the lower parts of the earth.
10. They shall be given over to the power of the sword. They shall be jackal food.
11. But the king shall rejoice in Elohim. Everyone who swears by him will praise him, for the mouth of those who speak lies shall be silenced.

Psalms 64
1. Hear my voice, Elohim, in my complaint. Preserve my life from fear of the enemy.
2. Hide me from the conspiracy of the wicked, from the noisy crowd of the ones doing brokenness;
3. who sharpen their tongue like a sword, and aim their arrows, deadly words,
4. to shoot innocent men from ambushes. They shoot at him suddenly and fearlessly.
5. They encourage themselves in brokenness plans. They talk about laying snares secretly. They say, "Who will see them?"
6. They plot injustice, saying, "We have made a perfect plan!" Surely a person's mind and heart are cunning.
7. But Elohim will shoot at them. They will be suddenly struck down with an arrow.
8. Their own tongues shall ruin them. All who see them will shake their heads.
9. All humanity shall be afraid. They shall declare the work of Elohim, and shall wisely ponder what he has done.
10. The righteous shall be glad in YHWH, and shall take refuge in him. All the upright in heart shall praise him!

Psalms 65
1. Praise waits for you, Elohim, in Tzion. To you shall vows be performed.
2. You who hear prayer, to you all people will come.
3. Sins overwhelmed me, but you atoned for our transgressions.
4. Blessed is one whom you choose, and cause to come near, that he may live in your courts. We will be filled with the goodness of your house, your holy temple.
5. By awesome deeds of righteousness, you answer us, God of our salvation. You who are the hope of all the ends of the earth, of those who are far away on the sea;
6. Who by his power forms the mountains, having armed yourself with strength;
7. who stills the roaring of the seas, the roaring of their waves, and the turmoil of the nations.
8. They also who dwell in far-away places are afraid at your wonders. You call the morning's dawn and the evening with songs of joy.
9. You visit the earth, and water it. You greatly enrich it. The river of Elohim is full of water. You provide them grain, for so you have ordained it.
10. You drench its furrows. You level its ridges. You soften it with showers. You bless it with a crop.
11. You crown the year with your bounty. Your carts overflow with abundance.
12. The wilderness grasslands overflow. The hills are clothed with gladness.
13. The pastures are covered with flocks. The valleys also are clothed with grain. They shout for joy! They also sing.

Psalms 66
1. Make a joyful shout to Elohim, all the earth!
2. Sing to the glory of his name! Offer glory and praise!
3. Tell Elohim, "How awesome are your deeds! Through the greatness of your power, your enemies submit themselves to you.
4. All the earth will worship you, and will sing to you; they will sing to your name." Selah.
5. Come, and see Elohim's deeds--awesome work on behalf of the children of people.
6. He turned the sea into dry land. They went through the river on foot. There, we rejoiced in him.
7. He rules by his might forever. His eyes watch the nations. Don't let the rebellious rise up against him. Selah.
8. Praise our God, you peoples! Make the sound of his praise heard,
9. who preserves our life among the living, and doesn't allow our feet to be moved.
10. For you, Elohim, have tested us. You have refined us, as silver is refined.
11. You brought us into prison. You laid a burden on our backs.
12. You allowed men to ride over our heads. We went through fire and through water, but you brought us to the place of abundance.
13. I will come into your temple with burnt offerings. I will pay my vows to you,
14. which my lips promised, and my mouth spoke, when I was in distress.
15. I will offer to you burnt offerings of fat animals, with the offering of rams, I will offer bulls with goats. Selah.
16. Come, and hear, all you who revere God. I will declare what he has done for my soul.
17. I cried to him with my mouth. He was extolled with my tongue.
18. If I cherished sin in my heart, YHWH wouldn't have listened.
19. But most certainly, Elohim has listened. He has heard the voice of my prayer.
20. Blessed be Elohim, who has not turned away my prayer, nor his loving kindness from me.

Psalms 67
1. May Elohim be merciful to us, bless us, and cause his face to shine on us. Selah.
2. That your way may be known on earth, and your salvation among all nations,
3. let the peoples praise you, Elohim. Let all the peoples praise you.
4. Oh let the nations be glad and sing for joy, for you will judge the peoples with equity, and govern the nations on earth. Selah.
5. Let the peoples praise you, Elohim. Let all the peoples praise you.
6. The earth has yielded its increase. Elohim, even our own Elohim, will bless us.
7. Elohim will bless us. All the ends of the earth shall revere him.

Psalms 68
1. Let Elohim arise! Let his enemies be scattered! Let them who hate him also flee before him.
2. As smoke is driven away, so drive them away. As wax melts before the fire, so let the wicked perish at the presence of Elohim.
3. But let the righteous be glad. Let them rejoice before Elohim. Yes, let them rejoice with gladness.
4. Sing to Elohim! Sing praises to his name! Extol the one who rides on the clouds: to Yah, their name! Rejoice before him!
5. Cosmic Parent of the fatherless, and defender of the widows, is Elohim in his holy habitation.
6. Elohim sets the lonely in families. He brings out the prisoners with singing, but the rebellious dwell in a sun-scorched land.
7. Elohim, when you went forth before your people, when you marched through the wilderness... Selah.
8. The earth trembled. The heavens also poured down rain at the presence of the God of Sinai--at the presence of Elohim, the God of Israel.
9. You, Elohim, sent a plentiful rain. You confirmed your inheritance, when it was weary.
10. Your congregation lived therein. You, Elohim, prepared your goodness for the poor.
11. YHWH announced the word. The ones who proclaim it are a great company.
12. "Kings of armies flee! They flee!" She who waits at home divides the spoil,
13. while you sleep among the campfires, the wings of a dove sheathed with silver, her feathers with shining gold.
14. When the Almighty scattered kings in her, it snowed on Zalmon.
15. The mountains of Bashan are majestic mountains. The mountains of Bashan are rugged.
16. Why do you look in envy, you rugged mountains, at the mountain where Elohim chooses to reign? Yes, YHWH will dwell there forever.
17. The chariots of Elohim are tens of thousands and thousands of thousands. YHWH is among them, from Sinai, into the sanctuary.
18. You have ascended on high. You have led away captives. You have received gifts among men, yes, among the rebellious also, that Yah Elohim might dwell there.
19. Blessed be YHWH, who daily bears our burdens, even Elohim, the one who is our salvation. Selah.
20. Elohim is to us a God of deliverance. To YHWH, YHWH, belongs escape from death.
21. But Elohim will strike through the head of his enemies, the hairy scalp of such a one as still continues in his guiltiness.
22. YHWH said, "I will bring you again from Bashan, I will bring you again from the depths of the sea;
23. That you may crush them, dipping your foot in blood, that the tongues of your dogs may have their portion from your enemies."
24. They have seen your processions, Elohim, even the processions of my God, my King, into the sanctuary.
25. The singers went before, the minstrels followed after, in the midst of the ladies playing with tambourines,
26. "Bless Elohim in the congregations, even YHWH in the assembly of Israel!"
27. There is little Binyamin, their ruler, the princes of Yehudah, their council, the princes of Zevulun, and the princes of Naphtali.
28. your God has commanded your strength. Strengthen, Elohim, that which you have done for us.
29. Because of your temple at Yerushalayim, kings shall bring presents to you.
30. Rebuke the wild animal of the reeds, the multitude of the bulls, with the calves of the peoples. Being humbled, may it bring bars of silver. Scatter the nations that delight in war.
31. Princes shall come out of Mitzrayim. Ethiopia shall hurry to stretch out her hands to Elohim.
32. Sing to Elohim, you kingdoms of the earth! Sing praises to YHWH! Selah.
33. To the one who rides on the heavens of heavens, which are of old; behold, he utters his voice, a mighty voice.
34. Ascribe strength to Elohim! His excellency is over Israel, his strength is in the skies.
35. You are awesome, Elohim, in your sanctuaries. The God of Israel gives strength and power to his people. Praise be to Elohim!

Psalms 69
1. Save me, Elohim, for the waters have come up to my neck!
2. I sink in deep mire, where there is no foothold. I have come into deep waters, where the floods overflow me.
3. I am weary with my crying. My throat is dry. My eyes fail, looking for my God.
4. Those who hate me without a cause are more than the hairs of my head. Those who want to cut me off, being my enemies wrongfully, are mighty. I have to restore what I didn't take away.
5. Elohim, you know my foolishness. My sins aren't hidden from you.
6. Don't let those who wait for you be shamed through me, YHWH God of Armies. Don't let those who seek you be brought to dishonor through me, God of Israel.
7. Because for your sake, I have borne reproach. Shame has covered my face.
8. I have become a stranger to my brothers, an alien to my mother's children.
9. For the zeal of your house consumes me. The reproaches of those who reproach you have fallen on me.
10. When I wept and I fasted, that was to my reproach.
11. When I made sackcloth my clothing, I became a byword to them.
12. Those who sit in the gate talk about me. I am the song of the drunkards.
13. But as for me, my prayer is to you, YHWH, in an acceptable time. Elohim, in the abundance of your loving kindness, answer me in the truth of your salvation.
14. Deliver me out of the mire, and don't let me sink. Let me be delivered from those who hate me, and out of the deep waters.
15. Don't let the flood waters overwhelm me, neither let the deep swallow me up. Don't let the pit shut its mouth on me.
16. Answer me, YHWH, for your loving kindness is good. According to the multitude of your tender mercies, turn to me.
17. Don't hide your face from your servant, for I am in distress. Answer me speedily!
18. Draw near to my soul, and redeem it. Ransom me because of my enemies.
19. You know my reproach, my shame, and my dishonor. My adversaries are all before you.
20. Reproach has broken my heart, and I am full of heaviness. I looked for some to take pity, but there was none; for comforters, but I found none.
21. They also gave me gall for my food. In my thirst, they gave me vinegar to drink.
22. Let their table before them become a snare. May it become a retribution and a trap.
23. Let their eyes be darkened, so that they can't see. Let their backs be continually bent.
24. Pour out your indignation on them. Let the fierceness of your anger overtake them.
25. Let their habitation be desolate. Let no one dwell in their tents.
26. For they persecute the one whom you have wounded. They tell of the sorrow of those whom you have hurt.
27. Charge them with crime upon crime. Don't let them come into your righteousness.
28. Let them be blotted out of the book of life, and not be written with the righteous.
29. But I am in pain and distress. Let your salvation, Elohim, protect me.
30. I will praise the name of Elohim with a song, and will magnify him with thanksgiving.
31. It will please YHWH better than an ox, or a bull that has horns and hoofs.
32. The humble have seen it, and are glad. You who seek after Elohim, let your heart live.
33. For YHWH hears the needy, and doesn't despise his captive people.
34. Let heavens and earth praise him; the seas, and everything that moves therein!
35. For Elohim will save Tzion, and build the cities of Yehudah. They shall settle there, and own it.
36. The children also of his servants shall inherit it. Those who love his name shall dwell therein.

Psalms 70
1. Hurry, Elohim, to deliver me. Come quickly to help me, YHWH.
2. Let them be disappointed and confounded who seek my soul. Let those who desire my ruin be turned back in disgrace.
3. Let them be turned because of their shame Who say, "Aha! Aha!"
4. Let all those who seek you rejoice and be glad in you. Let those who love your salvation continually say, "Let Elohim be exalted!"
5. But I am poor and needy. Come to me quickly, Elohim. You are my help and my deliverer. YHWH, don't delay.

Psalms 71
1. In you, YHWH, I take refuge. Never let me be disappointed.
2. Deliver me in your righteousness, and rescue me. Turn your ear to me, and save me.
3. Be to me a rock of refuge to which I may always go. Give the command to save me, for you are my rock and my fortress.
4. Rescue me, my God, from the hand of the wicked, from the hand of the unrighteous and cruel man.
5. For you are my hope, YHWH God; my confidence from my youth.
6. I have relied on you from the womb. You are the one who took me out of my mother's womb. I will always praise you.
7. I am a marvel to many, but you are my strong refuge.
8. My mouth shall be filled with your praise, with your honor all the day.
9. Don't reject me in my old age. Don't forsake me when my strength fails.
10. For my enemies talk about me. Those who watch for my soul conspire together,
11. saying, "Elohim has forsaken him. Pursue and take him, for no one will rescue him."
12. Elohim, don't be far from me. my God, hurry to help me.
13. Let my accusers be disappointed and consumed. Let them be covered with disgrace and scorn who want to harm me.
14. But I will always hope, and will add to all of your praise.
15. My mouth will tell about your righteousness, and of your salvation all day, though I don't know its full measure.
16. I will come with the mighty acts of YHWH God. I will make mention of your righteousness, even of yours alone.
17. Elohim, you have taught me from my youth. Until now, I have declared your wondrous works.
18. Yes, even when I am old and gray-haired, Elohim, don't forsake me, until I have declared your strength to the next generation, your might to everyone who is to come.
19. Your righteousness also, Elohim, reaches to the heavens; you have done great things. Elohim, who is like you?
20. You, who have shown us many and bitter troubles, you will let me live. You will bring us up again from the depths of the earth.
21. Increase my honor, and comfort me again.
22. I will also praise you with the harp for your faithfulness, my God. I sing praises to you with the lyre, Holy One of Israel.
23. My lips shall shout for joy! My soul, which you have redeemed, sings praises to you!
24. My tongue will also talk about your righteousness all day long, for they are disappointed, and they are confounded, who want to harm me.

Psalms 72
1. Elohim, give the king your justice; your righteousness to the royal son.
2. He will judge your people with righteousness, and your poor with justice.
3. The mountains shall bring prosperity to the people. The hills bring the fruit of righteousness.
4. He will judge the poor of the people. He will save the children of the needy, and will break the oppressor in pieces.
5. They shall revere you while the sun endures; and as long as the moon, throughout all generations.
6. He will come down like rain on the mown grass, as showers that water the earth.
7. In his days, the righteous shall flourish, and abundance of peace, until the moon is no more.
8. He shall have dominion also from sea to sea, from the River to the ends of the earth.
9. Those who dwell in the wilderness shall bow before him. His enemies shall lick the dust.
10. The kings of Tarshish and of the islands will bring tribute. The kings of Sheba and Seba shall offer gifts.
11. Yes, all kings shall fall down before him. All nations shall serve him.
12. For he will deliver the needy when he cries; the poor, who has no helper.
13. He will have pity on the poor and needy. He will save the souls of the needy.
14. He will redeem their soul from oppression and violence. Their blood will be precious in his sight.
15. They shall live, and to him shall be given of the gold of Sheba. People shall pray for him continually. They shall bless him all day long.
16. There shall be abundance of grain throughout the land. Its fruit sways like Levanon. Let it flourish, thriving like the grass of the field.
17. His name endures forever. His name continues as long as the sun. People shall be blessed by him. All nations will call him blessed.
18. Praise be to YHWH Elohim, the God of Israel, who alone does marvelous deeds.
19. Blessed be his glorious name forever! Let the whole earth be filled with his glory! Amen and amen.
20. This ends the prayers by Dawid, the son of Yishai.

Psalms 73
1. Surely Elohim is good to Israel, to those who are pure in heart.
2. But as for me, my feet were almost gone. My steps had nearly slipped.
3. For I was envious of the arrogant, when I saw the prosperity of the wicked.
4. For there are no struggles in their death, but their strength is firm.
5. They are free from burdens of people, neither are they plagued like other men.
6. Therefore pride is like a chain around their neck. Violence covers them like a garment.
7. Their eyes bulge with fat. Their minds pass the limits of conceit.
8. They scoff and speak with malice. In arrogance, they threaten oppression.
9. They have set their mouth in the heavens. Their tongue walks through the earth.
10. Therefore their people return to them, and they drink up waters of abundance.
11. They say, "How does Elohim know? Is there knowledge in the Most High?"
12. Behold, these are the wicked. Being always at ease, they increase in riches.
13. Surely in vain I have cleansed my heart, and washed my hands in innocence,
14. For all day long have I been plagued, and punished every morning.
15. If I had said, "I will speak thus;" behold, I would have betrayed the generation of your children.
16. When I tried to understand this, it was too painful for me;
17. Until I entered Elohim's sanctuary, and considered their latter end.
18. Surely you set them in slippery places. You throw them down to destruction.
19. How they are suddenly destroyed! They are completely swept away with terrors.
20. As a dream when one wakes up, so, YHWH, when you awake, you will despise their fantasies.
21. For my soul was grieved. I was embittered in my heart.
22. I was so senseless and ignorant. I was a brute beast before you.
23. Nevertheless, I am continually with you. You have held my right hand.
24. You will guide me with your counsel, and afterward receive me to glory.
25. Who do I have in heavens? There is no one on earth who I desire besides you.
26. My flesh and my heart fails, but Elohim is the strength of my heart and my portion forever.
27. For, behold, those who are far from you shall perish. You have destroyed all those who are unfaithful to you.
28. But it is good for me to come close to Elohim. I have made YHWH God my refuge, that I may tell of all your works.

Psalms 74
1. Elohim, why have you rejected us forever? Why does your anger smolder against the sheep of your pasture?
2. Remember your congregation, which you purchased of old, which you have redeemed to be the tribe of your inheritance; Har Tzion, in which you have lived.
3. Lift up your feet to the perpetual ruins, all the brokenness that the enemy has done in the sanctuary.
4. Your adversaries have roared in the midst of your assembly. They have set up their standards as signs.
5. They behaved like men wielding axes, cutting through a thicket of trees.
6. Now they break all its carved work down with hatchet and hammers.
7. They have burned your sanctuary to the ground. They have profaned the dwelling place of your Name.
8. They said in their heart, "We will crush them completely." They have burned up all the places in the land where Elohim was worshiped.
9. We see no miraculous signs. There is no longer any prophet, neither is there among us anyone who knows how long.
10. How long, Elohim, shall the adversary reproach? Shall the enemy blaspheme your name forever?
11. Why do you draw back your hand, even your right hand? Take it out of your pocket and consume them!
12. Yet Elohim is my King of old, working salvation in the midst of the earth.
13. You divided the sea by your strength. You broke the heads of the sea monsters in the waters.
14. You broke the heads of Leviathan in pieces. You gave him as food to people and desert creatures.
15. You opened up spring and stream. You dried up mighty rivers.
16. The day is yours, the night is also yours. You have prepared the light and the sun.
17. You have set all the boundaries of the earth. You have made summer and winter.
18. Remember this, that the enemy has mocked you, YHWH. Foolish people have blasphemed your name.
19. Don't deliver the soul of your dove to wild beasts. Don't forget the life of your poor forever.
20. Honor your covenant, for haunts of violence fill the dark places of the earth.
21. Don't let the oppressed return ashamed. Let the poor and needy praise your name.
22. Arise, Elohim! Plead your own cause. Remember how the foolish person mocks you all day.
23. Don't forget the voice of your adversaries. The tumult of those who rise up against you ascends continually.

Psalms 75
1. We give thanks to you, Elohim. We give thanks, for your Name is near. Men tell about your wondrous works.
2. When I choose the appointed time, I will judge blamelessly.
3. The earth and all its inhabitants quake. I firmly hold its pillars. Selah.
4. I said to the arrogant, "Don't boast!" I said to the wicked, "Don't lift up the horn.
5. Don't lift up your horn on high. Don't speak with a stiff neck."
6. For neither from the east, nor from the west, nor yet from the south, comes exaltation.
7. But Elohim is the judge. He puts down one, and lifts up another.
8. For in the hand of YHWH there is a cup, full of foaming wine mixed with spices. He pours it out. Indeed the wicked of the earth drink and drink it to its very dregs.
9. But I will declare this forever: I will sing praises to the God of Ya'akov.
10. I will cut off all the horns of the wicked, but the horns of the righteous shall be lifted up.

Psalms 76
1. In Yehudah, Elohim is known. His name is great in Israel.
2. His tent is also in Salem; His dwelling place in Tzion.
3. There he broke the flaming arrows of the bow, the shield, and the sword, and the weapons of war. Selah.
4. Glorious are you, and excellent, more than mountains of game.
5. Valiant men lie plundered, they have slept their last sleep. None of the men of war can lift their hands.
6. At your rebuke, God of Ya'akov, both chariot and horse are cast into a deep sleep.
7. You, even you, are to be feared. Who can stand in your sight when you are angry?
8. You pronounced judgment from heavens. The earth feared, and was silent,
9. when Elohim arose to judgment, to save all the afflicted ones of the earth. Selah.
10. Surely the wrath of man praises you. The survivors of your wrath are restrained.
11. Make vows to YHWH your God, and fulfill them! Let all of their neighbors bring presents to the one who is to be feared.
12. He will cut off the spirit of princes. He is feared by the kings of the earth.

Psalms 77
1. My cry goes to Elohim! Indeed, I cry to Elohim for help, and for him to listen to me.
2. In the day of my trouble I sought YHWH. My hand was stretched out in the night, and didn't get tired. My soul refused to be comforted.
3. I remember Elohim, and I groan. I complain, and my spirit is overwhelmed. Selah.
4. You hold my eyelids open. I am so troubled that I can't speak.
5. I have considered the days of old, the years of ancient times.
6. I remember my song in the night. I consider in my own heart; my spirit diligently inquires:
7. "Will YHWH reject us forever? Will he be favorable no more?
8. Has his loving kindness vanished forever? Does his promise fail for generations?
9. Has Elohim forgotten to be gracious? Has he, in anger, withheld his compassion?" Selah.
10. Then I thought, "I will appeal to this: the years of the right hand of the Most High."
11. I will remember Yah's deeds; for I will remember your wonders of old.
12. I will also meditate on all your work, and consider your doings.
13. Your way, Elohim, is in the sanctuary. What god is great like Elohim?
14. You are Elohim, the one who does wonders. You have made your strength known among the peoples.
15. You have redeemed your people with your arm, the sons of Ya'akov and Yosef. Selah.
16. The waters saw you, Elohim. The waters saw you, and they writhed. The depths also convulsed.
17. The clouds poured out water. The skies resounded with thunder. Your arrows also flashed around.
18. The voice of your thunder was in the whirlwind. The lightnings lit up the world. The earth trembled and shook.
19. Your way was through the sea; your paths through the great waters. Your footsteps were not known.
20. You led your people like a flock, by the hand of Moshe and Aharon.

Psalms 78
1. Hear my teaching, my people. Turn your ears to the words of my mouth.
2. I will open my mouth in a parable. I will utter dark sayings of old,
3. Which we have heard and known, and our fathers have told us.
4. We will not hide them from their children, telling to the generation to come the praises of YHWH, his strength, and his wondrous works that he has done.
5. For he established a testimony in Ya'akov, and appointed a teaching in Israel, which he commanded our fathers, that they should make them known to their children;
6. that the generation to come might know, even the children who should be born; who should arise and tell their children,
7. that they might set their hope in Elohim, and not forget the works of Elohim, but keep his commandments,
8. and might not be as their fathers, a stubborn and rebellious generation, a generation that didn't make their hearts loyal, whose spirit was not steadfast with Elohim.
9. The children of Efrayim, being armed and carrying bows, turned back in the day of battle.
10. They didn't keep Elohim's covenant, and refused to walk in his law.
11. They forgot his doings, his wondrous works that he had shown them.
12. He did marvelous things in the sight of their fathers, in the land of Mitzrayim, in the field of Zoan.
13. He split the sea, and caused them to pass through. He made the waters stand as a heap.
14. In the daytime he also led them with a cloud, and all night with a light of fire.
15. He split rocks in the wilderness, and gave them drink abundantly as out of the depths.
16. He brought streams also out of the rock, and caused waters to run down like rivers.
17. Yet they still went on to sin against him, to rebel against the Most High in the desert.
18. They tempted Elohim in their heart by asking food according to their desire.
19. Yes, they spoke against Elohim. They said, "Can Elohim prepare a table in the wilderness?
20. Behold, he struck the rock, so that waters gushed out, and streams overflowed. Can he give bread also? Will he provide flesh for his people?"
21. Therefore YHWH heard, and was angry. A fire was kindled against Ya'akov, anger also went up against Israel,
22. because they didn't believe in Elohim, and didn't trust in his salvation.
23. Yet he commanded the skies above, and opened the doors of heavens.
24. He rained down manna on them to eat, and gave them food from the heavens.
25. Man ate the bread of angels. He sent them food to the full.
26. He caused the east wind to blow in the heavens. By his power he guided the south wind.
27. He rained also flesh on them as the dust; winged birds as the sand of the seas.
28. He let them fall in the midst of their camp, around their habitations.
29. So they ate, and were well filled. He gave them their own desire.
30. They didn't turn from their cravings. Their food was yet in their mouths,
31. when the anger of Elohim went up against them, killed some of the fattest of them, and struck down the young people of Israel.
32. For all this they still sinned, and didn't believe in his wondrous works.
33. Therefore he consumed their days in vanity, and their years in terror.
34. When he killed them, then they inquired after him. They returned and sought Elohim earnestly.
35. They remembered that Elohim was their rock, the Most High Elohim, their redeemer.
36. But they flattered him with their mouth, and lied to him with their tongue.
37. For their heart was not right with him, neither were they faithful in his covenant.
38. But he, being merciful, forgave iniquity, and didn't destroy them. Yes, many times he turned his anger away, and didn't stir up all his wrath.
39. He remembered that they were but flesh, a wind that passes away, and doesn't come again.
40. How often they rebelled against him in the wilderness, and grieved him in the desert!
41. They turned again and tempted Elohim, and provoked the Holy One of Israel.
42. They didn't remember his hand, nor the day when he redeemed them from the adversary;
43. how he set his signs in Mitzrayim, his wonders in the field of Zoan,
44. he turned their rivers into blood, and their streams, so that they could not drink.
45. He sent among them swarms of flies, which devoured them; and frogs, which destroyed them.
46. He gave also their increase to the caterpillar, and their labor to the locust.
47. He destroyed their vines with hail, their sycamore fig trees with frost.
48. He gave over their livestock also to the hail, and their flocks to hot thunderbolts.
49. He threw on them the fierceness of his anger, wrath, indignation, and trouble, and a band of angels of brokenness.
50. He made a path for his anger. He didn't spare their soul from death, but gave their life over to the pestilence,
51. and struck all the firstborn in Mitzrayim, the chief of their strength in the tents of Ham.
52. But he led forth his own people like sheep, and guided them in the wilderness like a flock.
53. He led them safely, so that they weren't afraid, but the sea overwhelmed their enemies.
54. He brought them to the border of his sanctuary, to this mountain, which his right hand had taken.
55. He also drove out the nations before them, allotted them for an inheritance by line, and made the tribes of Israel to dwell in their tents.
56. Yet they tempted and rebelled against the Most High Elohim, and didn't keep his testimonies;
57. but turned back, and dealt treacherously like their fathers. They were turned aside like a deceitful bow.
58. For they provoked him to anger with their high places, and moved him to jealousy with their engraved images.
59. When Elohim heard this, he was angry, and greatly abhorred Israel;
60. So that he forsook the tent of Shilo, the tent which he placed among men;
61. and delivered his strength into captivity, his glory into the adversary's hand.
62. He also gave his people over to the sword, and was angry with his inheritance.
63. Fire devoured their young people. Their virgins had no wedding song.
64. Their priests fell by the sword, and their widows couldn't weep.
65. Then YHWH awakened as one out of sleep, like a mighty man who shouts by reason of wine.
66. He struck his adversaries backward. He put them to a perpetual reproach.
67. Moreover he rejected the tent of Yosef, and didn't choose the tribe of Efrayim,
68. But chose the tribe of Yehudah, Har Tzion which he loved.
69. He built his sanctuary like the heights, like the earth which he has established forever.
70. He also chose Dawid his servant, and took him from the sheepfolds;
71. from following the ewes that have their young, he brought him to be the shepherd of Ya'akov, his people, and Israel, his inheritance.
72. So he was their shepherd according to the integrity of his heart, and guided them by the skillfulness of his hands.

Psalms 79
1. Elohim, the nations have come into your inheritance. They have defiled your holy temple. They have laid Yerushalayim in heaps.
2. They have given the dead bodies of your servants to be food for the birds of the heavens, the flesh of your saints to the animals of the earth.
3. Their blood they have shed like water around Yerushalayim. There was no one to bury them.
4. We have become a reproach to our neighbors, a scoffing and derision to those who are around us.
5. How long, YHWH? Will you be angry forever? Will your jealousy burn like fire?
6. Pour out your wrath on the nations that don't know you; on the kingdoms that don't call on your name;
7. For they have devoured Ya'akov, and destroyed his homeland.
8. Don't hold the iniquities of our forefathers against us. Let your tender mercies speedily meet us, for we are in desperate need.
9. Help us, God of our salvation, for the glory of your name. Deliver us, and forgive our sins, for your name's sake.
10. Why should the nations say, "Where is their God?" Let it be known among the nations, before our eyes, that vengeance for your servants' blood is being poured out.
11. Let the sighing of the prisoner come before you. According to the greatness of your power, preserve those who are sentenced to death.
12. Pay back to our neighbors seven times into their bosom their reproach with which they have reproached you, YHWH.
13. So we, your people and sheep of your pasture, will give you thanks forever. We will praise you forever, to all generations.

Psalms 80
1. Hear us, Shepherd of Israel, you who lead Yosef like a flock, you who sit above the cherubim, shine forth.
2. Before Efrayim and Binyamin and Menashe, stir up your might! Come to save us!
3. Turn us again, Elohim. Cause your face to shine, and we will be saved.
4. YHWH God of Armies, How long will you be angry against the prayer of your people?
5. You have fed them with the bread of tears, and given them tears to drink in large measure.
6. You make us a source of contention to our neighbors. Our enemies laugh among themselves.
7. Turn us again, God of Armies. Cause your face to shine, and we will be saved.
8. You brought a vine out of Mitzrayim. You drove out the nations, and planted it.
9. You cleared the ground for it. It took deep root, and filled the land.
10. The mountains were covered with its shadow. Its boughs were like Elohim's cedars.
11. It sent out its branches to the sea, Its shoots to the River.
12. Why have you broken down its walls, so that all those who pass by the way pluck it?
13. The boar out of the wood ravages it. The wild animals of the field feed on it.
14. Turn again, we beg you, God of Armies. Look down from heavens, and see, and visit this vine,
15. the stock which your right hand planted, the branch that you made strong for yourself.
16. It's burned with fire. It's cut down. They perish at your rebuke.
17. Let your hand be on the person of your right hand, on the child of humanity whom you made strong for yourself.
18. So we will not turn away from you. Revive us, and we will call on your name.
19. Turn us again, YHWH God of Armies. Cause your face to shine, and we will be saved.

Psalms 81
1. Sing aloud to Elohim, our strength! Make a joyful shout to the God of Ya'akov!
2. Raise a song, and bring here the tambourine, the pleasant lyre with the harp.
3. Blow the trumpet at the New Moon, at the full moon, on our feast day.
4. For it is a statute for Israel, an ordinance of the God of Ya'akov.
5. He appointed it in Yosef for a testimony, when he went out over the land of Mitzrayim, I heard a language that I didn't know.
6. "I removed his shoulder from the burden. His hands were freed from the basket.
7. You called in trouble, and I delivered you. I answered you in the secret place of thunder. I tested you at the waters of Meribah." Selah.
8. "Hear, my people, and I will testify to you, Israel, if you would listen to me!
9. There shall be no strange god in you, neither shall you worship any foreign god.
10. I am YHWH, your God, who brought you up out of the land of Mitzrayim. Open your mouth wide, and I will fill it.
11. But my people didn't listen to my voice. Israel desired none of me.
12. So I let them go after the stubbornness of their hearts, that they might walk in their own counsels.
13. Oh that my people would listen to me, that Israel would walk in my ways!
14. I would soon subdue their enemies, and turn my hand against their adversaries.
15. The haters of YHWH would cringe before him, and their punishment would last forever.
16. But he would have also fed them with the finest of the wheat. I will satisfy you with honey out of the rock."

Psalms 82
1. Elohim presides in the great assembly. He judges among the gods.
2. "How long will you judge unjustly, and show partiality to the wicked?" Selah.
3. "Defend the weak, the poor, and the fatherless. Maintain the rights of the poor and oppressed.
4. Rescue the weak and needy. Deliver them out of the hand of the wicked."
5. They don't know, neither do they understand. They walk back and forth in darkness. All the foundations of the earth are shaken.
6. I said, "You are gods, all of you are sons of the Most High.
7. Nevertheless you shall die like men, and fall like one of the rulers."
8. Arise, Elohim, judge the earth, for you inherit all of the nations.

Psalms 83
1. Elohim, don't keep silent. Don't keep silent, and don't be still, Elohim.
2. For, behold, your enemies are stirred up. Those who hate you have lifted up their heads.
3. They conspire with cunning against your people. They plot against your cherished ones.
4. "Come," they say, "and let's destroy them as a nation, that the name of Israel may be remembered no more."
5. For they have conspired together with one mind. They form an alliance against you.
6. The tents of Edom and the Ishmaelites; Moab, and the Hagrites;
7. Gebal, Ammon, and Amalek; Philistia with the inhabitants of Tzor;
8. Ashur also is joined with them. They have helped the children of Lot. Selah.
9. Do to them as you did to Midian, as to Sisera, as to Jabin, at the river Kishon;
10. who perished at Endor, who became as dung for the earth.
11. Make their nobles like Oreb and Zeeb; yes, all their princes like Zebah and Zalmunna;
12. who said, "Let us take possession of Elohim's pasturelands."
13. my God, make them like tumbleweed; like chaff before the wind.
14. As the fire that burns the forest, as the flame that sets the mountains on fire,
15. so pursue them with your tempest, and terrify them with your storm.
16. Fill their faces with confusion, that they may seek your name, YHWH.
17. Let them be disappointed and dismayed forever. Yes, let them be confounded and perish;
18. that they may know that you alone, whose name is YHWH, are the Most High over all the earth.

Psalms 84
1. How lovely are your dwellings, YHWH of Armies!
2. My soul longs, and even faints for the courts of YHWH. My heart and my flesh cry out for the living Elohim.
3. Yes, the sparrow has found a home, and the swallow a nest for herself, where she may have her young, near your altars, YHWH of Armies, my King, and my God.
4. Blessed are those who dwell in your house. They are always praising you. Selah.
5. Blessed are those whose strength is in you; who have set their hearts on a pilgrimage.
6. Passing through the valley of Weeping, they make it a place of springs. Yes, the autumn rain covers it with blessings.
7. They go from strength to strength. Everyone of them appears before Elohim in Tzion.
8. YHWH, God of Armies, hear my prayer. Listen, God of Ya'akov. Selah.
9. Behold, Elohim our shield, look at the face of your anointed.
10. For a day in your courts is better than a thousand. I would rather be a doorkeeper in the house of my God, than to dwell in the tents of wickedness.
11. For YHWH Elohim is a sun and a shield. YHWH will give grace and glory. He withholds no good thing from those who walk blamelessly.
12. YHWH of Armies, blessed is the one who trusts in you.

Psalms 85
1. YHWH, you have been favorable to your land. You have restored the fortunes of Ya'akov.
2. You have forgiven the iniquity of your people. You have covered all their sin. Selah.
3. You have taken away all your wrath. You have turned from the fierceness of your anger.
4. Turn us, God of our salvation, and cause your indignation toward us to cease.
5. Will you be angry with us forever? Will you draw out your anger to all generations?
6. Won't you revive us again, that your people may rejoice in you?
7. Show us your loving kindness, YHWH. Grant us your salvation.
8. I will hear what Elohim, YHWH, will speak, for he will speak peace to his people, his saints; but let them not turn again to folly.
9. Surely his salvation is near those who revere him, that glory may dwell in our land.
10. Mercy and truth meet together. Righteousness and peace have kissed each other.
11. Truth springs out of the earth. Righteousness has looked down from heavens.
12. Yes, YHWH will give that which is good. Our land will yield its increase.
13. Righteousness goes before him, And prepares the way for his steps.

Psalms 86
1. Hear, YHWH, and answer me, for I am poor and needy.
2. Preserve my soul, for I am godly. You, my God, save your servant who trusts in you.
3. Be merciful to me, YHWH, for I call to you all day long.
4. Bring joy to the soul of your servant, for to you, YHWH, do I lift up my soul.
5. For you, YHWH, are good, and ready to forgive; abundant in loving kindness to all those who call on you.
6. Hear, YHWH, my prayer. Listen to the voice of my petitions.
7. In the day of my trouble I will call on you, for you will answer me.
8. There is no one like you among the gods, YHWH, nor any deeds like your deeds.
9. All nations you have made will come and worship before you, YHWH. They shall glorify your name.
10. For you are great, and do wondrous things. You are Elohim alone.
11. Teach me your way, YHWH. I will walk in your truth. Make my heart undivided to revere your name.
12. I will praise you, YHWH my God, with my whole heart. I will glorify your name forevermore.
13. For your loving kindness is great toward me. You have delivered my soul from the lowest Sheol.
14. Elohim, the proud have risen up against me. A company of violent men have sought after my soul, and they don't hold regard for you before them.
15. But you, YHWH, are a merciful and gracious Elohim, slow to anger, and abundant in loving kindness and truth.
16. Turn to me, and have mercy on me! Give your strength to your servant. Save the son of your handmaid.
17. Show me a sign of your goodness, that those who hate me may see it, and be shamed, because you, YHWH, have helped me, and comforted me.

Psalms 87
1. His foundation is in the holy mountains.
2. YHWH loves the gates of Tzion more than all the dwellings of Ya'akov.
3. Glorious things are spoken about you, city of Elohim. Selah.
4. I will record Rahab and Bavel among those who acknowledge me. Behold, Philistia, Tzor, and also Ethiopia: "This one was born there."
5. Yes, of Tzion it will be said, "This one and that one was born in her;" the Most High himself will establish her.
6. YHWH will count, when he writes up the peoples, "This one was born there." Selah.
7. Those who sing as well as those who dance say, "All my springs are in you."

Psalms 88
1. YHWH, the God of my salvation, I have cried day and night before you.
2. Let my prayer enter into your presence. Turn your ear to my cry.
3. For my soul is full of troubles. My life draws near to Sheol.
4. I am counted among those who go down into the pit. I am like a person who has no help,
5. set apart among the dead, like the slain who lie in the grave, whom you remember no more. They are cut off from your hand.
6. You have laid me in the lowest pit, in the darkest depths.
7. Your wrath lies heavily on me. You have afflicted me with all your waves. Selah.
8. You have taken my friends from me. You have made me an abomination to them. I am confined, and I can't escape.
9. My eyes are dim from grief. I have called on you daily, YHWH. I have spread out my hands to you.
10. Do you show wonders to the dead? Do the dead rise up and praise you? Selah.
11. Is your loving kindness declared in the grave? Or your faithfulness in Destruction?
12. Are your wonders made known in the dark? Or your righteousness in the land of forgetfulness?
13. But to you, YHWH, I have cried. In the morning, my prayer comes before you.
14. YHWH, why do you reject my soul? Why do you hide your face from me?
15. I am afflicted and ready to die from my youth up. While I suffer your terrors, I am distracted.
16. Your fierce wrath has gone over me. Your terrors have cut me off.
17. They came around me like water all day long. They completely engulfed me.
18. You have put lover and friend far from me, and my friends into darkness.

Psalms 89
1. I will sing of the loving kindness of YHWH forever. With my mouth, I will make known your faithfulness to all generations.
2. I indeed declare, "Love stands firm forever. You established the heavens. Your faithfulness is in them."
3. "I have made a covenant with my chosen one, I have sworn to Dawid, my servant,
4. 'I will establish your seed forever, and build up your throne to all generations.'" Selah.
5. The heavens will praise your wonders, YHWH; your faithfulness also in the assembly of the holy ones.
6. For who in the skies can be compared to YHWH? Who among the sons of the heavenly beings is like YHWH,
7. a very awesome Elohim in the council of the holy ones, to be feared above all those who are around him?
8. YHWH, God of Armies, who is a mighty one, like you? Yah, your faithfulness is around you.
9. You rule the pride of the sea. When its waves rise up, you calm them.
10. You have broken Rahab in pieces, like one of the slain. You have scattered your enemies with your mighty arm.
11. The heavens are yours. The earth also is yours; the world and its fullness. You have founded them.
12. The north and the south, you have created them. Tabor and Hermon rejoice in your name.
13. You have a mighty arm. Your hand is strong, and your right hand is exalted.
14. Righteousness and justice are the foundation of your throne. Loving kindness and truth go before your face.
15. Blessed are the people who learn to acclaim you. They walk in the light of your presence, YHWH.
16. In your name they rejoice all day. In your righteousness, they are exalted.
17. For you are the glory of their strength. In your favor, our horn will be exalted.
18. For our shield belongs to YHWH; our king to the Holy One of Israel.
19. Then you spoke in vision to your saints, and said, "I have bestowed strength on the warrior. I have exalted a young person from the people.
20. I have found Dawid, my servant. I have anointed him with my holy oil,
21. with whom my hand shall be established. My arm will also strengthen him.
22. No enemy will tax him. No broken person will oppress him.
23. I will beat down his adversaries before him, and strike those who hate him.
24. But my faithfulness and my loving kindness will be with him. In my name, his horn will be exalted.
25. I will set his hand also on the sea, and his right hand on the rivers.
26. He will call to me, 'You are my Cosmic Parent, my God, and the rock of my salvation!'
27. I will also appoint him my firstborn, the highest of the kings of the earth.
28. I will keep my loving kindness for him forevermore. My covenant will stand firm with him.
29. I will also make his seed endure forever, and his throne as the days of heavens.
30. If his children forsake my law, and don't walk in my ordinances;
31. if they break my statutes, and don't keep my commandments;
32. then I will punish their sin with the rod, and their iniquity with stripes.
33. But I will not completely take my loving kindness from him, nor allow my faithfulness to fail.
34. I will not break my covenant, nor alter what my lips have uttered.
35. Once have I sworn by my holiness, I will not lie to Dawid.
36. His seed will endure forever, his throne like the sun before me.
37. It will be established forever like the moon, the faithful witness in the heavens." Selah.
38. But you have rejected and spurned. You have been angry with your anointed.
39. You have renounced the covenant of your servant. You have defiled his crown in the dust.
40. You have broken down all his hedges. You have brought his strongholds to ruin.
41. All who pass by the way rob him. He has become a reproach to his neighbors.
42. You have exalted the right hand of his adversaries. You have made all of his enemies rejoice.
43. Yes, you turn back the edge of his sword, and haven't supported him in battle.
44. You have ended his splendor, and thrown his throne down to the ground.
45. You have shortened the days of his youth. You have covered him with shame. Selah.
46. How long, YHWH? Will you hide yourself forever? Will your wrath burn like fire?
47. Remember how short my time is! For what vanity have you created all the children of people!
48. What a person is the one who shall live and not see death, who shall deliver their soul from the power of Sheol? Selah.
49. YHWH, where are your former loving kindnesses, which you swore to Dawid in your faithfulness?
50. Remember, YHWH, the reproach of your servants, how I bear in my heart the taunts of all the mighty peoples,
51. With which your enemies have mocked, YHWH, with which they have mocked the footsteps of your anointed one.
52. Blessed be YHWH forevermore. Amen, and Amen.

Psalms 90
1. YHWH, you have been our dwelling place for all generations.
2. Before the mountains were brought forth, before you had formed the earth and the world, even from everlasting to everlasting, you are Elohim.
3. You turn man to destruction, saying, "Return, you children of people."
4. For a thousand years in your sight are just like yesterday when it is past, like a watch in the night.
5. You sweep them away as they sleep. In the morning they sprout like new grass.
6. In the morning it sprouts and springs up. By evening, it is withered and dry.
7. For we are consumed in your anger. We are troubled in your wrath.
8. You have set our iniquities before you, our secret sins in the light of your presence.
9. For all our days have passed away in your wrath. We bring our years to an end as a sigh.
10. The days of our years are seventy, or even by reason of strength eighty years; yet their pride is but labor and sorrow, for it passes quickly, and we fly away.
11. Who knows the power of your anger, your wrath according to the fear that is due to you?
12. So teach us to number our days, that we may gain a heart of wisdom.
13. Relent, YHWH! How long? Have compassion on your servants!
14. Satisfy us in the morning with your loving kindness, that we may rejoice and be glad all our days.
15. Make us glad for as many days as you have afflicted us, for as many years as we have seen brokenness.
16. Let your work appear to your servants; your glory to their children.
17. Let the favor of YHWH our God be on us; establish the work of our hands for us; yes, establish the work of our hands.

Psalms 91
1. The one who dwells in the secret place of the Most High will rest in the shadow of the Almighty.
2. I will say of YHWH, "He is my refuge and my fortress; my God, in whom I trust."
3. For he will deliver you from the snare of the fowler, and from the deadly pestilence.
4. He will cover you with his feathers. Under his wings you will take refuge. His faithfulness is your shield and rampart.
5. You shall not be afraid of the terror by night, nor of the arrow that flies by day;
6. nor of the pestilence that walks in darkness, nor of the destruction that wastes at noonday.
7. A thousand may fall at your side, and ten thousand at your right hand; but it will not come near you.
8. You will only look with your eyes, and see the recompense of the wicked.
9. Because you have made YHWH your refuge, and the Most High your dwelling place,
10. no brokenness shall happen to you, neither shall any plague come near your dwelling.
11. For he will give his angels charge over you, to guard you in all your ways.
12. They will bear you up in their hands, so that you won't dash your foot against a stone.
13. You will tread on the lion and cobra. You will trample the young lion and the serpent underfoot.
14. "Because he has set his love on me, therefore I will deliver him. I will set him on high, because he has known my name.
15. He will call on me, and I will answer him. I will be with him in trouble. I will deliver him, and honor him.
16. I will satisfy him with long life, and show him my salvation."

Psalms 92
1. It is a good thing to give thanks to YHWH, to sing praises to your name, Most High;
2. to proclaim your loving kindness in the morning, and your faithfulness every night,
3. with the ten-stringed lute, with the harp, and with the melody of the lyre.
4. For you, YHWH, have made me glad through your work. I will triumph in the works of your hands.
5. How great are your works, YHWH! Your thoughts are very deep.
6. A senseless man doesn't know, neither does a fool understand this:
7. though the wicked spring up as the grass, and all the people who act from brokenness flourish, they will be destroyed forever.
8. But you, YHWH, are on high forevermore.
9. For, behold, your enemies, YHWH, for, behold, your enemies shall perish. All the people who act from brokenness will be scattered.
10. But you have exalted my horn like that of the wild ox. I am anointed with fresh oil.
11. My eye has also seen my enemies. My ears have heard of the wicked enemies who rise up against me.
12. The righteous shall flourish like the palm tree. He will grow like a cedar in Levanon.
13. They are planted in YHWH's house. They will flourish in our God's courts.
14. They will still bring forth fruit in old age. They will be full of sap and green,
15. to show that YHWH is upright. He is my rock, and there is no unrighteousness in him.

Psalms 93
1. YHWH reigns! He is clothed with majesty! YHWH is armed with strength. The world also is established. It can't be moved.
2. Your throne is established from long ago. You are from everlasting.
3. The floods have lifted up, YHWH, the floods have lifted up their voice. The floods lift up their waves.
4. Above the voices of many waters, the mighty breakers of the sea, YHWH on high is mighty.
5. Your statutes stand firm. Holiness adorns your house, YHWH, forevermore.

Psalms 94
1. YHWH, you Elohim to whom vengeance belongs, you Elohim to whom vengeance belongs, shine forth.
2. Rise up, you judge of the earth. Pay back the proud what they deserve.
3. YHWH, how long will the wicked, how long will the wicked triumph?
4. They pour out arrogant words. All the people who act from brokenness boast.
5. They break your people in pieces, YHWH, and afflict your heritage.
6. They kill the widow and the alien, and murder the fatherless.
7. They say, "Yah will not see, neither will Ya'akov's Elohim consider."
8. Consider, you senseless among the people; you fools, when will you be wise?
9. The one who implanted the ear, won't they hear? The one who formed the eye, won't they see?
10. The one who disciplines the nations, won't they punish? The one who teaches man knows.
11. YHWH knows the thoughts of man, that they are futile.
12. Blessed is the person whom you discipline, Yah, and teach out of your law;
13. that you may give him rest from the days of adversity, until the pit is dug for the wicked.
14. For YHWH won't reject his people, neither will he forsake his inheritance.
15. For judgment will return to righteousness. All the upright in heart shall follow it.
16. Who will rise up for me against the wicked? Who will stand up for me against the people who act from brokenness?
17. Unless YHWH had been my help, my soul would have soon lived in silence.
18. When I said, "My foot is slipping!" Your loving kindness, YHWH, held me up.
19. In the multitude of my thoughts within me, your comforts delight my soul.
20. Shall the throne of wickedness have fellowship with you, which brings about mischief by statute?
21. They gather themselves together against the soul of the righteous, and condemn the innocent blood.
22. But YHWH has been my high tower, my God, the rock of my refuge.
23. He has brought on them their own iniquity, and will cut them off in their own wickedness. YHWH, our God, will cut them off.

Psalms 95
1. Oh come, let's sing to YHWH. Let's shout aloud to the rock of our salvation!
2. Let's come before his presence with thanksgiving. Let's extol him with songs!
3. For YHWH is a great Elohim, a great King above all gods.
4. In his hand are the deep places of the earth. The heights of the mountains are also his.
5. The sea is his, and he made it. His hands formed the dry land.
6. Oh come, let's worship and bow down. Let's kneel before YHWH, our Maker,
7. for he is our God. We are the people of his pasture, and the sheep in his care. Today, oh that you would hear his voice!
8. Don't harden your heart, as at Meribah, as in the day of Massah in the wilderness,
9. when your fathers tempted me, tested me, and saw my work.
10. Forty long years I was grieved with that generation, and said, "It is a people that errs in their heart. They have not known my ways."
11. Therefore I swore in my wrath, "They won't enter into my rest."

Psalms 96
1. Sing to YHWH a new song! Sing to YHWH, all the earth.
2. Sing to YHWH! Bless his name! Proclaim his salvation from day to day!
3. Declare his glory among the nations, his marvelous works among all the peoples.
4. For great is YHWH, and greatly to be praised! He is to be revered above all gods.
5. For all the gods of the peoples are idols, but YHWH made the heavens.
6. Honor and majesty are before him. Strength and beauty are in his sanctuary.
7. Ascribe to YHWH, you families of nations, ascribe to YHWH glory and strength.
8. Ascribe to YHWH the glory due to YHWH’s name. Bring an offering, and come into his courts.
9. Worship YHWH in holy array. Tremble before him, all the earth.
10. Say among the nations, "YHWH reigns." The world is also established. It can't be moved. He will judge the peoples with equity.
11. Let the heavens be glad, and let the earth rejoice. Let the sea roar, and its fullness!
12. Let the field and all that is in it exult! Then all the trees of the woods shall sing for joy
13. before YHWH; for he comes, for YHWH comes to judge the earth. He will judge the world with righteousness, the peoples with his truth.

Psalms 97
1. YHWH reigns! Let the earth rejoice! Let the multitude of islands be glad!
2. Clouds and darkness are around him. Righteousness and justice are the foundation of his throne.
3. A fire goes before him, and burns up his adversaries on every side.
4. His lightning lights up the world. The earth sees, and trembles.
5. The mountains melt like wax at the presence of YHWH, at the presence of YHWH of the whole earth.
6. The heavens declare his righteousness. All the peoples have seen his glory.
7. Let all them be shamed who serve engraved images, who boast in their idols. Worship him, all you gods!
8. Tzion heard and was glad. The daughters of Yehudah rejoiced, because of your judgments, YHWH.
9. For you, YHWH, are most high above all the earth. You are exalted far above all gods.
10. You who love YHWH, hate brokenness. He preserves the souls of his saints. He delivers them out of the hand of the wicked.
11. Light is sown for the righteous, and gladness for the upright in heart.
12. Be glad in YHWH, you righteous people! Give thanks to his holy Name.

Psalms 98
1. Sing to YHWH a new song, for he has done marvelous things! His right hand, and his holy arm, have worked salvation for him.
2. YHWH has made known his salvation. He has openly shown his righteousness in the sight of the nations.
3. He has remembered his loving kindness and his faithfulness toward the house of Israel. All the ends of the earth have seen the salvation of our God.
4. Make a joyful noise to YHWH, all the earth! Burst out and sing for joy, yes, sing praises!
5. Sing praises to YHWH with the harp, with the harp and the voice of melody.
6. With trumpets and sound of the ram's horn, make a joyful noise before the King, YHWH.
7. Let the sea roar with its fullness; the world, and those who dwell therein.
8. Let the rivers clap their hands. Let the mountains sing for joy together.
9. Let them sing before YHWH, for YHWH comes to judge the earth. He will judge the world with righteousness, and the peoples with equity.

Psalms 99
1. YHWH reigns! Let the peoples tremble. He sits enthroned among the cherubim. Let the earth be moved.
2. YHWH is great in Tzion. He is high above all the peoples.
3. Let them praise your great and awesome name. He is Holy!
4. The King's strength also loves justice. You do establish equity. You execute justice and righteousness in Ya'akov.
5. Exalt YHWH our God. Worship at his footstool. He is Holy!
6. Moshe and Aharon were among his priests, Shmuel among those who call on his name; they called on YHWH, and he answered them.
7. He spoke to them in the pillar of cloud. They kept his testimonies, the statute that he gave them.
8. You answered them, YHWH our God. You are an Elohim who forgave them, although you took vengeance for their doings.
9. Exalt YHWH, our God. Worship at his holy hill, for YHWH, our God, is holy!

Psalms 100
1. Shout for joy to YHWH, all you lands!
2. Serve YHWH with gladness. Come before his presence with singing.
3. Know that YHWH, he is Elohim. It is the one who has made us, and we are their. We are his people, and the sheep of his pasture.
4. Enter into his gates with thanksgiving, into his courts with praise. Give thanks to him, and bless his name.
5. For YHWH is good. His loving kindness endures forever, his faithfulness to all generations.

Psalms 101
1. I will sing of loving kindness and justice. To you, YHWH, I will sing praises.
2. I will be careful to live a blameless life. When will you come to me? I will walk within my house with a blameless heart.
3. I will set no vile thing before my eyes. I hate the deeds of faithless men. They will not cling to me.
4. A perverse heart will be far from me. I will have nothing to do with brokenness.
5. I will silence whoever secretly slanders their neighbor. I won't tolerate one who is haughty and conceited.
6. My eyes will be on the faithful of the land, that they may dwell with me. The one who walks in a perfect way, they will serve me.
7. The one who practices deceit won't dwell within my house. The one who speaks falsehood won't be established before my eyes.
8. Morning by morning, I will destroy all the wicked of the land; to cut off all the workers of iniquity from YHWH's city.

Psalms 102
1. Hear my prayer, YHWH! Let my cry come to you.
2. Don't hide your face from me in the day of my distress. Turn your ear to me. Answer me quickly in the day when I call.
3. For my days consume away like smoke. My bones are burned as a firebrand.
4. My heart is blighted like grass, and withered, for I forget to eat my bread.
5. By reason of the voice of my groaning, my bones stick to my skin.
6. I am like a pelican of the wilderness. I have become as an owl of the waste places.
7. I watch, and have become like a sparrow that is alone on the housetop.
8. My enemies reproach me all day. Those who are mad at me use my name as a curse.
9. For I have eaten ashes like bread, and mixed my drink with tears,
10. Because of your indignation and your wrath, for you have taken me up, and thrown me away.
11. My days are like a long shadow. I have withered like grass.
12. But you, YHWH, will abide forever; your renown endures to all generations.
13. You will arise and have mercy on Tzion; for it is time to have pity on her. Yes, the set time has come.
14. For your servants take pleasure in her stones, and have pity on her dust.
15. So the nations will fear the name of YHWH; all the kings of the earth your glory.
16. For YHWH has built up Tzion. He has appeared in his glory.
17. He has responded to the prayer of the destitute, and has not despised their prayer.
18. This will be written for the generation to come. A people which will be created will praise Yah.
19. For he has looked down from the height of his sanctuary. From heavens, YHWH saw the earth;
20. to hear the groans of the prisoner; to free those who are condemned to death;
21. that men may declare the name of YHWH in Tzion, and his praise in Yerushalayim;
22. when the peoples are gathered together, the kingdoms, to serve YHWH.
23. He weakened my strength along the course. He shortened my days.
24. I said, "my God, don't take me away in the midst of my days. Your years are throughout all generations.
25. Of old, you laid the foundation of the earth. The heavens are the work of your hands.
26. They will perish, but you will endure. Yes, all of them will wear out like a garment. You will change them like a cloak, and they will be changed.
27. But you are the same. Your years will have no end.
28. The children of your servants will continue. Their seed will be established before you."

Psalms 103
1. Praise YHWH, my soul! All that is within me, praise his holy name!
2. Praise YHWH, my soul, and don't forget all his benefits;
3. who forgives all your sins; who heals all your diseases;
4. who redeems your life from destruction; who crowns you with loving kindness and tender mercies;
5. who satisfies your desire with good things, so that your youth is renewed like the eagle's.
6. YHWH executes righteous acts, and justice for all who are oppressed.
7. He made known his ways to Moshe, his deeds to the children of Israel.
8. YHWH is merciful and gracious, slow to anger, and abundant in loving kindness.
9. He will not always accuse; neither will he stay angry forever.
10. He has not dealt with us according to our sins, nor repaid us for our iniquities.
11. For as the heavens are high above the earth, so great is his loving kindness toward those who revere him.
12. As far as the east is from the west, so far has he removed our transgressions from us.
13. Like a father has compassion on his children, so YHWH has compassion on those who revere him.
14. For he knows how we are made. He remembers that we are dust.
15. As for man, his days are like grass. As a flower of the field, so he flourishes.
16. For the wind passes over it, and it is gone. Its place remembers it no more.
17. But YHWH's loving kindness is from everlasting to everlasting with those who revere him, his righteousness to children's children;
18. to those who keep his covenant, to those who remember to obey his precepts.
19. YHWH has established his throne in the heavens. His kingdom rules over all.
20. Praise YHWH, you angels of his, who are mighty in strength, who fulfill his word, obeying the voice of his word.
21. Praise YHWH, all you armies of his, you servants of his, who do his pleasure.
22. Praise YHWH, all you works of his, in all places of his dominion. Praise YHWH, my soul!

Psalms 104
1. Bless YHWH, my soul. YHWH, my God, you are very great. You are clothed with honor and majesty.
2. He covers himself with light as with a garment. He stretches out the heavens like a curtain.
3. He lays the beams of his chambers in the waters. He makes the clouds his chariot. He walks on the wings of the wind.
4. He makes his messengers winds; his servants flames of fire.
5. He laid the foundations of the earth, that it should not be moved forever.
6. You covered it with the deep as with a cloak. The waters stood above the mountains.
7. At your rebuke they fled. At the voice of your thunder they hurried away.
8. The mountains rose, the valleys sank down, to the place which you had assigned to them.
9. You have set a boundary that they may not pass over; that they don't turn again to cover the earth.
10. He sends forth springs into the valleys. They run among the mountains.
11. They give drink to every animal of the field. The wild donkeys quench their thirst.
12. The birds of the heavens nest by them. They sing among the branches.
13. He waters the mountains from his chambers. The earth is filled with the fruit of your works.
14. He causes the grass to grow for the livestock, and plants for man to cultivate, that he may bring forth food out of the earth:
15. wine that makes glad the human heart, oil to make their face to shine, and bread that strengthens a person's heart.
16. YHWH's trees are well watered, the cedars of Levanon, which he has planted;
17. where the birds make their nests. The stork makes its home in the fir trees.
18. The high mountains are for the wild goats. The rocks are a refuge for the rock badgers.
19. He appointed the moon for seasons. The sun knows when to set.
20. You make darkness, and it is night, in which all the animals of the forest prowl.
21. The young lions roar after their prey, and seek their food from Elohim.
22. The sun rises, and they steal away, and lay down in their dens.
23. Man goes forth to his work, to his labor until the evening.
24. YHWH, how many are your works! In wisdom have you made them all. The earth is full of your riches.
25. There is the sea, great and wide, in which are innumerable living things, both small and large animals.
26. There the ships go, and leviathan, whom you formed to play there.
27. These all wait for you, that you may give them their food in due season.
28. You give to them; they gather. You open your hand; they are satisfied with good.
29. You hide your face: they are troubled; you take away their breath: they die, and return to the dust.
30. You send forth your Ruach: they are created. You renew the face of the ground.
31. Let the glory of YHWH endure forever. Let YHWH rejoice in his works.
32. He looks at the earth, and it trembles. He touches the mountains, and they smoke.
33. I will sing to YHWH as long as I live. I will sing praise to my God while I have any being.
34. Let your meditation be sweet to him. I will rejoice in YHWH.
35. Let sinners be consumed out of the earth. Let the wicked be no more. Bless YHWH, my soul. Praise Yah!

Psalms 105
1. Give thanks to YHWH! Call on his name! Make his doings known among the peoples.
2. Sing to him, sing praises to him! Tell of all his marvelous works.
3. Glory in YHWH’s holy name. Let the heart of those who seek YHWH rejoice.
4. Seek YHWH and his strength. Seek YHWH’s face forever more.
5. Remember his marvelous works that he has done; his wonders, and the judgments of his mouth,
6. you seed of Avraham, his servant, you children of Ya'akov, his chosen ones.
7. He is YHWH, our God. His judgments are in all the earth.
8. He has remembered his covenant forever, the word which he commanded to a thousand generations,
9. the covenant which he made with Avraham, his oath to Yitzhak,
10. and confirmed the same to Ya'akov for a statute; to Israel for an everlasting covenant,
11. saying, "To you I will give the land of Canaan, the lot of your inheritance;"
12. when they were but a few men in number, yes, very few, and foreigners in it.
13. They went about from nation to nation, from one kingdom to another people.
14. They allowed no one to do them wrong. Yes, he reproved kings for their sakes,
15. "Don't touch my anointed ones! Do my prophets no harm!"
16. He called for a famine on the land. He destroyed the food supplies.
17. They sent a person before them. Yosef was sold for a slave.
18. They bruised his feet with shackles. His neck was locked in irons,
19. until the time that his word happened, and YHWH's word proved him true.
20. The king sent and freed him; even the ruler of peoples, and let him go free.
21. He made him lord of his house, and ruler of all of his possessions;
22. to discipline his princes at his pleasure, and to teach his elders wisdom.
23. Israel also came into Mitzrayim. Ya'akov sojourned in the land of Ham.
24. He increased his people greatly, and made them stronger than their adversaries.
25. He turned their heart to hate his people, to conspire against his servants.
26. He sent Moshe, his servant, and Aharon, whom he had chosen.
27. They performed miracles among them, and wonders in the land of Ham.
28. He sent darkness, and made it dark. They didn't rebel against his words.
29. He turned their waters into blood, and killed their fish.
30. Their land swarmed with frogs, even in the chambers of their kings.
31. He spoke, and swarms of flies came, and lice in all their borders.
32. He gave them hail for rain, with lightning in their land.
33. He struck their vines and also their fig trees, and shattered the trees of their country.
34. He spoke, and the locusts came, and the grasshoppers, without number,
35. ate up every plant in their land; and ate up the fruit of their ground.
36. He struck also all the firstborn in their land, the first fruits of all their manhood.
37. He brought them forth with silver and gold. There was not one feeble person among his tribes.
38. Mitzrayim was glad when they departed, for the fear of them had fallen on them.
39. He spread a cloud for a covering, fire to give light in the night.
40. They asked, and he brought quails, and satisfied them with the bread of the heavens.
41. He opened the rock, and waters gushed out. They ran as a river in the dry places.
42. For he remembered his holy word, and Avraham, his servant.
43. He brought forth his people with joy, his chosen with singing.
44. He gave them the lands of the nations. They took the labor of the peoples in possession,
45. that they might keep his statutes, and observe his laws. Praise Yah!

Psalms 106
1. Praise YHWH! Give thanks to YHWH, for YHWH is good, for YHWH’s loving kindness endures forever.
2. Who can utter the mighty acts of YHWH, or fully declare all his praise?
3. Blessed are those who keep justice. Blessed is one who does what is right at all times.
4. Remember me, YHWH, with the favor that you show to your people. Visit me with your salvation,
5. that I may see the prosperity of your chosen, that I may rejoice in the gladness of your nation, that I may glory with your inheritance.
6. We have sinned with our fathers. We have committed iniquity. We have done wickedly.
7. Our fathers didn't understand your wonders in Mitzrayim. They didn't remember the multitude of your loving kindnesses, but were rebellious at the sea, even at the Red Sea.
8. Nevertheless he saved them for his name's sake, that he might make his mighty power known.
9. He rebuked the Red Sea also, and it was dried up; so he led them through the depths, as through a desert.
10. They saved them from the hand of the one who hated them, and redeemed them from the hand of the enemy.
11. The waters covered their adversaries. There was not one of them left.
12. Then they believed his words. They sang his praise.
13. They soon forgot his works. They didn't wait for his counsel,
14. but gave in to craving in the desert, and tested Elohim in the wasteland.
15. He gave them their request, but sent leanness into their soul.
16. They envied Moshe also in the camp, and Aharon, YHWH's saint.
17. The earth opened and swallowed up Dathan, and covered the company of Abiram.
18. A fire was kindled in their company. The flame burned up the wicked.
19. They made a calf in Horeb, and worshiped a molten image.
20. Thus they exchanged their glory for an image of a bull that eats grass.
21. They forgot Elohim, their Savior, who had done great things in Mitzrayim,
22. Wondrous works in the land of Ham, and awesome things by the Red Sea.
23. Therefore he said that he would destroy them, had Moshe, his chosen, not stood before him in the breach, to turn away his wrath, so that he wouldn't destroy them.
24. Yes, they despised the pleasant land. They didn't believe his word,
25. but murmured in their tents, and didn't listen to YHWH's voice.
26. Therefore he swore to them that he would overthrow them in the wilderness,
27. that he would overthrow their seed among the nations, and scatter them in the lands.
28. They joined themselves also to Baal Peor, and ate the sacrifices of the dead.
29. Thus they provoked him to anger with their deeds. The plague broke in on them.
30. Then Phinehas stood up, and executed judgment, so the plague was stopped.
31. That was credited to him for righteousness, for all generations to come.
32. They angered him also at the waters of Meribah, so that Moshe was troubled for their sakes;
33. because they were rebellious against his spirit, he spoke rashly with his lips.
34. They didn't destroy the peoples, as YHWH commanded them,
35. but mixed themselves with the nations, and learned their works.
36. They served their idols, which became a snare to them.
37. Yes, they sacrificed their sons and their daughters to demons.
38. They shed innocent blood, even the blood of their sons and of their daughters, whom they sacrificed to the idols of Canaan. The land was polluted with blood.
39. Thus were they defiled with their works, and prostituted themselves in their deeds.
40. Therefore YHWH burned with anger against his people. He abhorred his inheritance.
41. He gave them into the hand of the nations. Those who hated them ruled over them.
42. Their enemies also oppressed them. They were brought into subjection under their hand.
43. Many times he delivered them, but they were rebellious in their counsel, and were brought low in their iniquity.
44. Nevertheless he regarded their distress, when he heard their cry.
45. He remembered for them his covenant, and relented according to the multitude of his loving kindnesses.
46. He made them also to be pitied by all those who carried them captive.
47. Save us, YHWH, our God, gather us from among the nations, to give thanks to your holy name, to triumph in your praise!
48. Blessed be YHWH, the God of Israel, from everlasting even to everlasting! Let all the people say, "Amen." Praise Yah!

Psalms 107
1. Give thanks to YHWH, for YHWH is good, for YHWH’s loving kindness endures forever.
2. Let the redeemed by YHWH say so, whom he has redeemed from the hand of the adversary,
3. And gathered out of the lands, from the east and from the west, from the north and from the south.
4. They wandered in the wilderness in a desert way. They found no city to live in.
5. Hungry and thirsty, their soul fainted in them.
6. Then they cried to YHWH in their trouble, and he delivered them out of their distresses,
7. he led them also by a straight way, that they might go to a city to live in.
8. Let them praise YHWH for his loving kindness, for his wonderful works to the children of people!
9. For he satisfies the longing soul. He fills the hungry soul with good.
10. Some sat in darkness and in the shadow of death, being bound in affliction and iron,
11. because they rebelled against the words of Elohim, and condemned the counsel of the Most High.
12. Therefore he brought down their heart with labor. They fell down, and there was none to help.
13. Then they cried to YHWH in their trouble, and he saved them out of their distresses.
14. He brought them out of darkness and the shadow of death, and broke their bonds in sunder.
15. Let them praise YHWH for his loving kindness, for his wonderful works to the children of people!
16. For he has broken the gates of brass, and cut through bars of iron.
17. Fools are afflicted because of their disobedience, and because of their iniquities.
18. Their soul abhors all kinds of food. They draw near to the gates of death.
19. Then they cry to YHWH in their trouble, he saves them out of their distresses.
20. He sends his word, and heals them, and delivers them from their graves.
21. Let them praise YHWH for his loving kindness, for his wonderful works to the children of people!
22. Let them offer the sacrifices of thanksgiving, and declare his works with singing.
23. Those who go down to the sea in ships, who do business in great waters;
24. These see YHWH's works, and his wonders in the deep.
25. For he commands, and raises the stormy wind, which lifts up its waves.
26. They mount up to the heavens; they go down again to the depths. Their soul melts away because of trouble.
27. They reel back and forth, and stagger like a drunken man, and are at their wits' end.
28. Then they cry to YHWH in their trouble, and he brings them out of their distress.
29. He makes the storm a calm, so that its waves are still.
30. Then they are glad because it is calm, so he brings them to their desired haven.
31. Let them praise YHWH for his loving kindness, for his wonderful works for the children of people!
32. Let them exalt him also in the assembly of the people, and praise him in the seat of the elders.
33. He turns rivers into a desert, water springs into a thirsty ground,
34. and a fruitful land into a salt waste, for the wickedness of those who dwell in it.
35. He turns a desert into a pool of water, and a dry land into water springs.
36. There he makes the hungry live, that they may prepare a city to live in,
37. sow fields, plant vineyards, and reap the fruits of increase.
38. He blesses them also, so that they are multiplied greatly. He doesn't allow their livestock to decrease.
39. Again, they are diminished and bowed down through oppression, trouble, and sorrow.
40. He pours contempt on princes, and causes them to wander in a trackless waste.
41. Yet he lifts the needy out of their affliction, and increases their families like a flock.
42. The upright will see it, and be glad. All the wicked will shut their mouths.
43. Whoever is wise will pay attention to these things. They will consider the loving kindnesses of YHWH.

Psalms 108
1. My heart is steadfast, Elohim. I will sing and I will make music with my soul.
2. Wake up, harp and lyre! I will wake up the dawn.
3. I will give thanks to you, YHWH, among the nations. I will sing praises to you among the peoples.
4. For your loving kindness is great above the heavens. Your faithfulness reaches to the skies.
5. Be exalted, Elohim, above the heavens! Let your glory be over all the earth.
6. That your beloved may be delivered, save with your right hand, and answer us.
7. Elohim has spoken from his sanctuary: "In triumph, I will divide Shekhem, and measure out the valley of Succoth.
8. Gilead is mine. Menashe is mine. Efrayim also is my helmet. Yehudah is my scepter.
9. Moab is my wash pot. I will toss my sandal on Edom. I will shout over Philistia."
10. Who will bring me into the fortified city? Who has led me to Edom?
11. Haven't you rejected us, Elohim? You don't go forth, Elohim, with our armies.
12. Give us help against the enemy, for the help of a person is vain.
13. Through Elohim, we will do valiantly. For it is the one who will tread down our enemies.

Psalms 109
1. God of my praise, don't remain silent,
2. for they have opened the mouth of the wicked and the mouth of deceit against me. They have spoken to me with a lying tongue.
3. They have also surrounded me with words of hatred, and fought against me without a cause.
4. In return for my love, they are my adversaries; but I am in prayer.
5. They have rewarded me brokenness for good, and hatred for my love.
6. Set a broken person over him. Let an adversary stand at his right hand.
7. When he is judged, let him come forth guilty. Let his prayer be turned into sin.
8. Let his days be few. Let another take his office.
9. Let his children be fatherless, and his wife a widow.
10. Let his children be wandering beggars. Let them be sought from their ruins.
11. Let the creditor seize all that he has. Let strangers plunder the fruit of his labor.
12. Let there be none to extend kindness to him, neither let there be any to have pity on his fatherless children.
13. Let his posterity be cut off. In the generation following let their name be blotted out.
14. Let the iniquity of his fathers be remembered by YHWH. Don't let the sin of his mother be blotted out.
15. Let them be before YHWH continually, that he may cut off the memory of them from the earth;
16. because he didn't remember to show kindness, but persecuted the poor and needy man, the broken in heart, to kill them.
17. Yes, he loved cursing, and it came to him. He didn't delight in blessing, and it was far from him.
18. He clothed himself also with cursing as with his garment. It came into his inward parts like water, like oil into his bones.
19. Let it be to him as the clothing with which he covers himself, for the belt that is always around him.
20. This is the reward of my adversaries from YHWH, of those who speak harmfully against my soul.
21. But deal with me, YHWH God, for your name's sake, because your loving kindness is good, deliver me;
22. for I am poor and needy. My heart is wounded within me.
23. I fade away like an evening shadow. I am shaken off like a locust.
24. My knees are weak through fasting. My body is thin and lacks fat.
25. I have also become a reproach to them. When they see me, they shake their head.
26. Help me, YHWH, my God. Save me according to your loving kindness;
27. that they may know that this is your hand; that you, YHWH, have done it.
28. They may curse, but you bless. When they arise, they will be shamed, but your servant shall rejoice.
29. Let my adversaries be clothed with dishonor. Let them cover themselves with their own shame as with a robe.
30. I will give great thanks to YHWH with my mouth. Yes, I will praise him among the multitude.
31. For he will stand at the right hand of the needy, to save him from those who judge his soul.

Psalms 110
1. YHWH says to my YHWH, "Sit at my right hand, until I make your enemies your footstool for your feet."
2. YHWH will send forth the rod of your strength out of Tzion. Rule in the midst of your enemies.
3. Your people offer themselves willingly in the day of your power, in holy array. Out of the womb of the morning, you have the dew of your youth.
4. YHWH has sworn, and will not change his mind: "You are a priest forever in the order of Melchizedek."
5. YHWH is at your right hand. He will crush kings in the day of his wrath.
6. He will judge among the nations. He will heap up dead bodies. He will crush the ruler of the whole earth.
7. He will drink of the brook in the way; therefore he will lift up his head.

Psalms 111
1. Praise Yah! I will give thanks to YHWH with my whole heart, in the council of the upright, and in the congregation.
2. YHWH's works are great, pondered by all those who delight in them.
3. His work is honor and majesty. His righteousness endures forever.
4. He has caused his wonderful works to be remembered. YHWH is gracious and merciful.
5. He has given food to those who revere him. He always remembers his covenant.
6. He has shown his people the power of his works, in giving them the heritage of the nations.
7. The works of his hands are truth and justice. All his precepts are sure.
8. They are established forever and ever. They are done in truth and uprightness.
9. He has sent redemption to his people. He has ordained his covenant forever. His name is holy and awesome!
10. Reverence for YHWH is the beginning of wisdom. All those who do his work have a good understanding. His praise endures forever!

Psalms 112
1. Praise Yah! Blessed is the one who reveres YHWH, who delights greatly in YHWH’s commandments.
2. His seed will be mighty in the land. The generation of the upright will be blessed.
3. Wealth and riches are in his house. His righteousness endures forever.
4. Light dawns in the darkness for the upright, gracious, merciful, and righteous.
5. It is well with the one who deals graciously and lends. He will maintain his cause in judgment.
6. For he will never be shaken. The righteous will be remembered forever.
7. He will not be afraid of brokenness news. His heart is steadfast, trusting in YHWH.
8. His heart is established. He will not be afraid in the end when he sees his adversaries.
9. He has dispersed, he has given to the poor. His righteousness endures forever. His horn will be exalted with honor.
10. The wicked will see it, and be grieved. He shall gnash with his teeth, and melt away. The desire of the wicked will perish.

Psalms 113
1. Praise Yah! Praise, you servants of YHWH, praise the name of YHWH.
2. Blessed be the name of YHWH, from this time forth and forevermore.
3. From the rising of the sun to the going down of the same, YHWH's name is to be praised.
4. YHWH is high above all nations, his glory above the heavens.
5. Who is like YHWH, our God, who has his seat on high,
6. Who stoops down to see in heavens and in the earth?
7. He raises up the poor out of the dust. Lifts up the needy from the ash heap;
8. that he may set him with princes, even with the princes of his people.
9. He settles the barren woman in her home, as a joyful mother of children. Praise Yah!

Psalms 114
1. When Israel went forth out of Mitzrayim, the house of Ya'akov from a people of foreign language;
2. Yehudah became his sanctuary, Israel his dominion.
3. The sea saw it, and fled. The Yarden was driven back.
4. The mountains skipped like rams, the little hills like lambs.
5. What was it, you sea, that you fled? You Yarden, that you turned back?
6. You mountains, that you skipped like rams; you little hills, like lambs?
7. Tremble, you earth, at the presence of YHWH, at the presence of the God of Ya'akov,
8. who turned the rock into a pool of water, the flint into a spring of waters.

Psalms 115
1. Not to us, YHWH, not to us, but to your name give glory, for your loving kindness, and for your truth's sake.
2. Why should the nations say, "Where is their God, now?"
3. But our God is in the heavens. He does whatever he pleases.
4. Their idols are silver and gold, the work of people's hands.
5. They have mouths, but they don't speak. They have eyes, but they don't see.
6. They have ears, but they don't hear. They have noses, but they don't smell.
7. They have hands, but they don't feel. They have feet, but they don't walk, neither do they speak through their throat.
8. Those who make them will be like them; yes, everyone who trusts in them.
9. Israel, trust in YHWH! He is their help and their shield.
10. House of Aharon, trust in YHWH! He is their help and their shield.
11. You who revere YHWH, trust in YHWH! He is their help and their shield.
12. YHWH remembers us. He will bless us. He will bless the house of Israel. He will bless the house of Aharon.
13. He will bless those who revere YHWH, both small and great.
14. May YHWH increase you more and more, you and your children.
15. Blessed are you by YHWH, who made heavens and earth.
16. The heavens are the heavens of YHWH; but the earth has he given to the children of people.
17. The dead don't praise Yah, neither any who go down into silence;
18. But we will bless Yah, from this time forth and forevermore. Praise Yah!

Psalms 116
1. I love YHWH, because he listens to my voice, and my cries for mercy.
2. Because he has turned his ear to me, therefore I will call on him as long as I live.
3. The cords of death surrounded me, the pains of Sheol got a hold of me. I found trouble and sorrow.
4. Then called I on the name of YHWH: "YHWH, I beg you, deliver my soul."
5. Gracious is YHWH, and righteous; yes, our God is merciful.
6. YHWH preserves the simple. I was brought low, and he saved me.
7. Return to your rest, my soul, for YHWH has dealt bountifully with you.
8. For you have delivered my soul from death, my eyes from tears, and my feet from falling.
9. I will walk before YHWH in the land of the living.
10. I believed, therefore I said, "I was greatly afflicted."
11. I said in my haste, "All people are liars."
12. What will I give to YHWH for all his benefits toward me?
13. I will take the cup of salvation, and call on the name of YHWH.
14. I will pay my vows to YHWH, yes, in the presence of all his people.
15. Precious in the sight of YHWH is the death of his saints.
16. YHWH, truly I am your servant. I am your servant, the son of your handmaid. You have freed me from my chains.
17. I will offer to you the sacrifice of thanksgiving, and will call on the name of YHWH.
18. I will pay my vows to YHWH, yes, in the presence of all his people,
19. in the courts of YHWH's house, in the midst of you, Yerushalayim. Praise Yah!

Psalms 117
1. Praise YHWH, all you nations! Extol him, all you peoples!
2. For his loving kindness is great toward us. YHWH's faithfulness endures forever. Praise Yah!

Psalms 118
1. Give thanks to YHWH, for YHWH is good, for YHWH’s loving kindness endures forever.
2. Let Israel now say that his loving kindness endures forever.
3. Let the house of Aharon now say that his loving kindness endures forever.
4. Now let those who revere YHWH say that his loving kindness endures forever.
5. Out of my distress, I called on Yah. Yah answered me with freedom.
6. YHWH is on my side. I will not be afraid. What can man do to me?
7. YHWH is on my side among those who help me. Therefore I will look in triumph at those who hate me.
8. It is better to take refuge in YHWH, than to put confidence in man.
9. It is better to take refuge in YHWH, than to put confidence in princes.
10. All the nations surrounded me, but in the name of YHWH, I cut them off.
11. They surrounded me, yes, they surrounded me. In the name of YHWH I indeed cut them off.
12. They surrounded me like bees. They are quenched like the burning thorns. In the name of YHWH I cut them off.
13. You pushed me back hard, to make me fall, but YHWH helped me.
14. Yah is my strength and song. He has become my salvation.
15. The voice of rejoicing and salvation is in the tents of the righteous. "The right hand of YHWH does valiantly.
16. The right hand of YHWH is exalted! The right hand of YHWH does valiantly!"
17. I will not die, but live, and declare Yah's works.
18. Yah has punished me severely, but he has not given me over to death.
19. Open to me the gates of righteousness. I will enter into them. I will give thanks to Yah.
20. This is the gate of YHWH; the righteous will enter into it.
21. I will give thanks to you, for you have answered me, and have become my salvation.
22. The stone which the builders rejected has become the head of the corner.
23. This is YHWH's doing. It is marvelous in our eyes.
24. This is the day that YHWH has made. We will rejoice and be glad in it!
25. Save us now, we beg you, YHWH! YHWH, we beg you, send prosperity now.
26. Blessed is the one who comes in the name of YHWH! We have blessed you out of the house of YHWH.
27. YHWH is Elohim, and he has given us light. Bind the sacrifice with cords, even to the horns of the altar.
28. You are my God, and I will give thanks to you. You are my God, I will exalt you.
29. Oh give thanks to YHWH, for YHWH is good, for YHWH’s loving kindness endures forever.

Psalms 119
1. Blessed are those whose ways are blameless, who walk according to YHWH's law.
2. Blessed are those who keep his statutes, who seek him with their whole heart.
3. Yes, they do nothing wrong. They walk in his ways.
4. You have commanded your precepts, that we should fully obey them.
5. Oh that my ways were steadfast to obey your statutes!
6. Then I wouldn't be disappointed, when I consider all of your commandments.
7. I will give thanks to you with uprightness of heart, when I learn your righteous judgments.
8. I will observe your statutes. Don't utterly forsake me.
9. How can a young person keep his way pure? By living according to your word.
10. With my whole heart, I have sought you. Don't let me wander from your commandments.
11. I have hidden your word in my heart, that I might not sin against you.
12. Blessed are you, YHWH. Teach me your statutes.
13. With my lips, I have declared all the ordinances of your mouth.
14. I have rejoiced in the way of your testimonies, as much as in all riches.
15. I will meditate on your precepts, and consider your ways.
16. I will delight myself in your statutes. I will not forget your word.
17. Do good to your servant. I will live and I will obey your word.
18. Open my eyes, that I may see wondrous things out of your law.
19. I am a stranger on the earth. Don't hide your commandments from me.
20. My soul is consumed with longing for your ordinances at all times.
21. You have rebuked the proud who are cursed, who wander from your commandments.
22. Take reproach and contempt away from me, for I have kept your statutes.
23. Though princes sit and slander me, your servant will meditate on your statutes.
24. Indeed your statutes are my delight, and my counselors.
25. My soul is laid low in the dust. Revive me according to your word!
26. I declared my ways, and you answered me. Teach me your statutes.
27. Let me understand the teaching of your precepts! Then I will meditate on your wondrous works.
28. My soul is weary with sorrow: strengthen me according to your word.
29. Keep me from the way of deceit. Grant me your law graciously!
30. I have chosen the way of truth. I have set your ordinances before me.
31. I cling to your statutes, YHWH. Don't let me be disappointed.
32. I run in the path of your commandments, for you have set my heart free.
33. Teach me, YHWH, the way of your statutes. I will keep them to the end.
34. Give me understanding, and I will keep your law. Yes, I will obey it with my whole heart.
35. Direct me in the path of your commandments, for I delight in them.
36. Turn my heart toward your statutes, not toward selfish gain.
37. Turn my eyes away from looking at worthless things. Revive me in your ways.
38. Fulfill your promise to your servant, that you may be feared.
39. Take away my disgrace that I dread, for your ordinances are good.
40. Behold, I long for your precepts! Revive me in your righteousness.
41. Let your loving kindness also come to me, YHWH, your salvation, according to your word.
42. So I will have an answer for the one who reproaches me, for I trust in your word.
43. Don't snatch the word of truth out of my mouth, for I put my hope in your ordinances.
44. So I will obey your law continually, forever and ever.
45. I will walk in liberty, for I have sought your precepts.
46. I will also speak of your statutes before kings, and will not be disappointed.
47. I will delight myself in your commandments, because I love them.
48. I reach out my hands for your commandments, which I love. I will meditate on your statutes.
49. Remember your word to your servant, because you gave me hope.
50. This is my comfort in my affliction, for your word has revived me.
51. The arrogant mock me excessively, but I don't swerve from your law.
52. I remember your ordinances of old, YHWH, and have comforted myself.
53. Indignation has taken hold on me, because of the wicked who forsake your law.
54. Your statutes have been my songs, in the house where I live.
55. I have remembered your name, YHWH, in the night, and I obey your law.
56. This is my way, that I keep your precepts.
57. YHWH is my portion. I promised to obey your words.
58. I sought your favor with my whole heart. Be merciful to me according to your word.
59. I considered my ways, and turned my steps to your statutes.
60. I will hurry, and not delay, to obey your commandments.
61. The ropes of the wicked bind me, but I won't forget your law.
62. At midnight I will rise to give thanks to you, because of your righteous ordinances.
63. I am a friend of all those who revere you, of those who observe your precepts.
64. The earth is full of your loving kindness, YHWH. Teach me your statutes.
65. Do good to your servant, according to your word, YHWH.
66. Teach me good judgment and knowledge, for I believe in your commandments.
67. Before I was afflicted, I went astray; but now I observe your word.
68. You are good, and do good. Teach me your statutes.
69. The proud have smeared a lie upon me. With my whole heart, I will keep your precepts.
70. Their heart is as callous as the fat, but I delight in your law.
71. It is good for me that I have been afflicted, that I may learn your statutes.
72. The law of your mouth is better to me than thousands of pieces of gold and silver.
73. Your hands have made me and formed me. Give me understanding, that I may learn your commandments.
74. Those who revere you will see me and be glad, because I have put my hope in your word.
75. YHWH, I know that your judgments are righteous, that in faithfulness you have afflicted me.
76. Please let your loving kindness be for my comfort, according to your word to your servant.
77. Let your tender mercies come to me, that I may live; for your law is my delight.
78. Let the proud be disappointed, for they have overthrown me wrongfully. I will meditate on your precepts.
79. Let those who revere you turn to me. They will know your statutes.
80. Let my heart be blameless toward your decrees, that I may not be disappointed.
81. My soul faints for your salvation. I hope in your word.
82. My eyes fail for your word. I say, "When will you comfort me?"
83. For I have become like a wineskin in the smoke. I don't forget your statutes.
84. How many are the days of your servant? When will you execute judgment on those who persecute me?
85. The proud have dug pits for me, contrary to your law.
86. All of your commandments are faithful. They persecute me wrongfully. Help me!
87. They had almost wiped me from the earth, but I didn't forsake your precepts.
88. Preserve my life according to your loving kindness, so I will obey the statutes of your mouth.
89. YHWH, your word is settled in heavens forever.
90. Your faithfulness is to all generations. You have established the earth, and it remains.
91. Your laws remain to this day, for all things serve you.
92. Unless your law had been my delight, I would have perished in my affliction.
93. I will never forget your precepts, for with them, you have revived me.
94. I am yours. Save me, for I have sought your precepts.
95. The wicked have waited for me, to destroy me. I will consider your statutes.
96. I have seen a limit to all perfection, but your commands are boundless.
97. How I love your law! It is my meditation all day.
98. Your commandments make me wiser than my enemies, for your commandments are always with me.
99. I have more understanding than all my teachers, for your testimonies are my meditation.
100. I understand more than the aged, because I have kept your precepts.
101. I have kept my feet from every broken way, that I might observe your word.
102. I have not turned aside from your ordinances, for you have taught me.
103. How sweet are your promises to my taste, more than honey to my mouth!
104. Through your precepts, I get understanding; therefore I hate every false way.
105. Your word is a lamp to my feet, and a light for my path.
106. I have sworn, and have confirmed it, that I will obey your righteous ordinances.
107. I am afflicted very much. Revive me, YHWH, according to your word.
108. Accept, I beg you, the willing offerings of my mouth. YHWH, teach me your ordinances.
109. My soul is continually in my hand, yet I won't forget your law.
110. The wicked have laid a snare for me, yet I haven't gone astray from your precepts.
111. I have taken your testimonies as a heritage forever, for they are the joy of my heart.
112. I have set my heart to perform your statutes forever, even to the end.
113. I hate double-minded men, but I love your law.
114. You are my hiding place and my shield. I hope in your word.
115. Depart from me, you people who act from brokenness, that I may keep the commandments of my God.
116. Uphold me according to your word, that I may live. Let me not be ashamed of my hope.
117. Hold me up, and I will be safe, and will have respect for your statutes continually.
118. You reject all those who stray from your statutes, for their deceit is in vain.
119. You put away all the wicked of the earth like dross. Therefore I love your testimonies.
120. My flesh trembles for fear of you. I am afraid of your judgments.
121. I have done what is just and righteous. Don't leave me to my oppressors.
122. Ensure your servant's well-being. Don't let the proud oppress me.
123. My eyes fail looking for your salvation, for your righteous word.
124. Deal with your servant according to your loving kindness. Teach me your statutes.
125. I am your servant. Give me understanding, that I may know your testimonies.
126. It is time to act, YHWH, for they break your law.
127. Therefore I love your commandments more than gold, yes, more than pure gold.
128. Therefore I consider all of your precepts to be right. I hate every false way.
129. Your testimonies are wonderful, therefore my soul keeps them.
130. The entrance of your words gives light. It gives understanding to the simple.
131. I opened my mouth wide and panted, for I longed for your commandments.
132. Turn to me, and have mercy on me, as you always do to those who love your name.
133. Establish my footsteps in your word. Don't let any iniquity have dominion over me.
134. Redeem me from the oppression of man, so I will observe your precepts.
135. Make your face shine on your servant. Teach me your statutes.
136. Streams of tears run down my eyes, because they don't observe your law.
137. You are righteous, YHWH. Your judgments are upright.
138. You have commanded your statutes in righteousness. They are fully trustworthy.
139. My zeal wears me out, because my enemies ignore your words.
140. Your promises have been thoroughly tested, and your servant loves them.
141. I am small and despised. I don't forget your precepts.
142. Your righteousness is an everlasting righteousness. Your law is truth.
143. Trouble and anguish have taken hold of me. Your commandments are my delight.
144. Your testimonies are righteous forever. Give me understanding, that I may live.
145. I have called with my whole heart. Answer me, YHWH! I will keep your statutes.
146. I have called to you. Save me! I will obey your statutes.
147. I rise before dawn and cry for help. I put my hope in your words.
148. My eyes stay open through the night watches, that I might meditate on your word.
149. Hear my voice according to your loving kindness. Revive me, YHWH, according to your ordinances.
150. They draw near who follow after wickedness. They are far from your law.
151. You are near, YHWH. All your commandments are truth.
152. Of old I have known from your testimonies, that you have founded them forever.
153. Consider my affliction, and deliver me, for I don't forget your law.
154. Plead my cause, and redeem me! Revive me according to your promise.
155. Salvation is far from the wicked, for they don't seek your statutes.
156. Great are your tender mercies, YHWH. Revive me according to your ordinances.
157. Many are my persecutors and my adversaries. I haven't swerved from your testimonies.
158. I look at the faithless with loathing, because they don't observe your word.
159. Consider how I love your precepts. Revive me, YHWH, according to your loving kindness.
160. All of your words are truth. Every one of your righteous ordinances endures forever.
161. Princes have persecuted me without a cause, but my heart stands in awe of your words.
162. I rejoice at your word, as one who finds great spoil.
163. I hate and abhor falsehood. I love your law.
164. Seven times a day, I praise you, because of your righteous ordinances.
165. Those who love your law have great peace. Nothing causes them to stumble.
166. I have hoped for your salvation, YHWH. I have done your commandments.
167. My soul has observed your testimonies. I love them exceedingly.
168. I have obeyed your precepts and your testimonies, for all my ways are before you.
169. Let my cry come before you, YHWH. Give me understanding according to your word.
170. Let my supplication come before you. Deliver me according to your word.
171. Let my lips utter praise, for you teach me your statutes.
172. Let my tongue sing of your word, for all your commandments are righteousness.
173. Let your hand be ready to help me, for I have chosen your precepts.
174. I have longed for your salvation, YHWH. Your law is my delight.
175. Let my soul live, that I may praise you. Let your ordinances help me.
176. I have gone astray like a lost sheep. Seek your servant, for I don't forget your commandments.

Psalms 120
1. In my distress, I cried to YHWH. He answered me.
2. Deliver my soul, YHWH, from lying lips, from a deceitful tongue.
3. What will be given to you, and what will be done more to you, you deceitful tongue?
4. Sharp arrows of the mighty, with coals of juniper.
5. Woe is me, that I live in Meshech, that I dwell among the tents of Kedar!
6. My soul has had her dwelling too long with the one who hates peace.
7. I am for peace, but when I speak, they are for war.

Psalms 121
1. I will lift up my eyes to the hills. Where does my help come from?
2. My help comes from YHWH, who made heavens and earth.
3. He will not allow your foot to be moved. The one who keeps you will not slumber.
4. Behold, the one who keeps Israel will neither slumber nor sleep.
5. YHWH is your keeper. YHWH is your shade on your right hand.
6. The sun will not harm you by day, nor the moon by night.
7. YHWH will keep you from all brokenness. He will keep your soul.
8. YHWH will keep your going out and your coming in, from this time forth, and forevermore.

Psalms 122
1. I was glad when they said to me, "Let's go to YHWH's house!"
2. Our feet are standing within your gates, Yerushalayim;
3. Yerushalayim, that is built as a city that is compact together;
4. where the tribes go up, even Yah's tribes, according to an ordinance for Israel, to give thanks to the name of YHWH.
5. For there are set thrones for judgment, the thrones of Dawid's house.
6. Pray for the peace of Yerushalayim. Those who love you will prosper.
7. Peace be within your walls, and prosperity within your palaces.
8. For my brothers' and companions' sakes, I will now say, "Peace be within you."
9. For the sake of the house of YHWH our God, I will seek your good.

Psalms 123
1. To you I do lift up my eyes, you who sit in the heavens.
2. Behold, as the eyes of servants look to the hand of their master, as the eyes of a maid to the hand of her mistress; so our eyes look to YHWH, our God, until he has mercy on us.
3. Have mercy on us, YHWH, have mercy on us, for we have endured much contempt.
4. Our soul is exceedingly filled with the scoffing of those who are at ease, with the contempt of the proud.

Psalms 124
1. If it had not been YHWH who was on our side, let Israel now say,
2. if it had not been YHWH who was on our side, when men rose up against us;
3. then they would have swallowed us up alive, when their wrath was kindled against us;
4. then the waters would have overwhelmed us, the stream would have gone over our soul;
5. then the proud waters would have gone over our soul.
6. Blessed be YHWH, who has not given us as a prey to their teeth.
7. Our soul has escaped like a bird out of the fowler's snare. The snare is broken, and we have escaped.
8. Our help is in the name of YHWH, who made heavens and earth.

Psalms 125
1. Those who trust in YHWH are as Har Tzion, which can't be moved, but remains forever.
2. As the mountains surround Yerushalayim, so YHWH surrounds his people from this time forth and forevermore.
3. For the scepter of wickedness won't remain over the allotment of the righteous; so that the righteous won't use their hands to do brokenness.
4. Do good, YHWH, to those who are good, to those who are upright in their hearts.
5. But as for those who turn aside to their crooked ways, YHWH will lead them away with the workers of iniquity. Peace be on Israel.

Psalms 126
1. When YHWH brought back those who returned to Tzion, we were like those who dream.
2. Then our mouth was filled with laughter, and our tongue with singing. Then they said among the nations, "YHWH has done great things for them."
3. YHWH has done great things for us, and we are glad.
4. Restore our fortunes again, YHWH, like the streams in the Negev.
5. Those who sow in tears will reap in joy.
6. The one who goes out weeping, carrying seed for sowing, will certainly come again with joy, carrying their sheaves.

Psalms 127
1. Unless YHWH builds the house, they labor in vain who build it. Unless YHWH watches over the city, the watchman guards it in vain.
2. It is vain for you to rise up early, to stay up late, eating the bread of toil; for he gives sleep to his loved ones.
3. Behold, children are a heritage of YHWH. The fruit of the womb is his reward.
4. As arrows in the hand of a mighty man, so are the children of youth.
5. Happy is the one who has their quiver full of them. They won't be disappointed when they speak with their enemies in the gate.

Psalms 128
1. Blessed is everyone who reveres YHWH, who walks in their ways.
2. For you will eat the labor of your hands. You will be happy, and it will be well with you.
3. Your wife will be as a fruitful vine, in the innermost parts of your house; your children like olive plants, around your table.
4. Behold, thus is the person blessed who reveres YHWH.
5. May YHWH bless you out of Tzion, and may you see the good of Yerushalayim all the days of your life.
6. Yes, may you see your children's children. Peace be upon Israel.

Psalms 129
1. Many times they have afflicted me from my youth up. Let Israel now say,
2. many times they have afflicted me from my youth up, yet they have not prevailed against me.
3. The plowers plowed on my back. They made their furrows long.
4. YHWH is righteous. He has cut apart the cords of the wicked.
5. Let them be disappointed and turned backward, all those who hate Tzion.
6. Let them be as the grass on the housetops, which withers before it grows up;
7. with which the reaper doesn't fill their hand, nor the one who binds sheaves, their bosom.
8. Neither do those who go by say, "The blessing of YHWH be on you. We bless you in the name of YHWH."

Psalms 130
1. Out of the depths I have cried to you, YHWH.
2. YHWH, hear my voice. Let your ears be attentive to the voice of my petitions.
3. If you, Yah, kept a record of sins, YHWH, who could stand?
4. But there is forgiveness with you, therefore you are feared.
5. I wait for YHWH. My soul waits. I hope in his word.
6. My soul longs for YHWH more than watchmen long for the morning; more than watchmen for the morning.
7. Israel, hope in YHWH, for with YHWH there is loving kindness. With him is abundant redemption.
8. He will redeem Israel from all their sins.

Psalms 131
1. YHWH, my heart isn't haughty, nor my eyes lofty; nor do I concern myself with great matters, or things too wonderful for me.
2. Surely I have stilled and quieted my soul, like a weaned child with his mother, like a weaned child is my soul within me.
3. Israel, hope in YHWH, from this time forth and forevermore.

Psalms 132
1. YHWH, remember Dawid and all his affliction,
2. how he swore to YHWH, and vowed to the Mighty One of Ya'akov:
3. "Surely I will not come into the structure of my house, nor go up into my bed;
4. I will not give sleep to my eyes, or slumber to my eyelids;
5. until I find out a place for YHWH, a dwelling for the Mighty One of Ya'akov."
6. Behold, we heard of it in Ephrathah. We found it in the field of Jaar:
7. "We will go into his dwelling place. We will worship at his footstool.
8. Arise, YHWH, into your resting place; you, and the ark of your strength.
9. Let your priest be clothed with righteousness. Let your saints shout for joy!"
10. For your servant Dawid's sake, don't turn away the face of your anointed one.
11. YHWH has sworn to Dawid in truth. He will not turn from it: "I will set the fruit of your body on your throne.
12. If your children will keep my covenant, my testimony that I will teach them, their children also will sit on your throne forevermore."
13. For YHWH has chosen Tzion. He has desired it for his habitation.
14. "This is my resting place forever. Here I will live, for I have desired it.
15. I will abundantly bless her provision. I will satisfy her poor with bread.
16. Her priests I will also clothe with salvation. Her saints will shout aloud for joy.
17. There I will make the horn of Dawid to bud. I have ordained a lamp for my anointed.
18. I will clothe his enemies with shame, but on himself, his crown will be resplendent."

Psalms 133
1. See how good and how pleasant it is for brothers to live together in unity!
2. It is like the precious oil on the head, that ran down on the beard, even Aharon's beard; that came down on the edge of his robes;
3. like the dew of Hermon, that comes down on the hills of Tzion: for there YHWH gives the blessing, even life forevermore.

Psalms 134
1. Look! Praise YHWH, all you servants of YHWH, who stand by night in YHWH's house!
2. Lift up your hands in the sanctuary. Praise YHWH!
3. May YHWH bless you from Tzion; even the one who made heavens and earth.

Psalms 135
1. Praise Yah! Praise the name of YHWH! Praise him, you servants of YHWH,
2. you who stand in the house of YHWH, in the courts of our God's house.
3. Praise Yah, for YHWH is good. Sing praises to his name, for that is pleasant.
4. For Yah has chosen Ya'akov for himself; Israel for his own possession.
5. For I know that YHWH is great, that our YHWH is above all gods.
6. Whatever YHWH pleased, that he has done, in heavens and in earth, in the seas and in all deeps;
7. who causes the clouds to rise from the ends of the earth; who makes lightnings with the rain; who brings forth the wind out of his treasuries;
8. Who struck the firstborn of Mitzrayim, both of man and animal;
9. Who sent signs and wonders into the midst of you, Mitzrayim, on Pharaoh, and on all his servants;
10. who struck many nations, and killed mighty kings,
11. Sihon king of the Amorites, Og king of Bashan, and all the kingdoms of Canaan,
12. and gave their land for a heritage, a heritage to Israel, his people.
13. Your name, YHWH, endures forever; your renown, YHWH, throughout all generations.
14. For YHWH will judge his people, and have compassion on his servants.
15. The idols of the nations are silver and gold, the work of people's hands.
16. They have mouths, but they can't speak. They have eyes, but they can't see.
17. They have ears, but they can't hear; neither is there any breath in their mouths.
18. Those who make them will be like them; yes, everyone who trusts in them.
19. House of Israel, praise YHWH! House of Aharon, praise YHWH!
20. House of Levi, praise YHWH! You who revere YHWH, praise YHWH!
21. Blessed be YHWH from Tzion, Who dwells at Yerushalayim. Praise Yah!

Psalms 136
1. Give thanks to YHWH, for he is good; for his loving kindness endures forever.
2. Give thanks to the God of gods; for his loving kindness endures forever.
3. Give thanks to the Sovereign over sovereigns; for his loving kindness endures forever:
4. To the one who alone does great wonders; for his loving kindness endures forever:
5. To the one who by understanding made the heavens; for his loving kindness endures forever:
6. To the one who spread out the earth above the waters; for his loving kindness endures forever:
7. To the one who made the great lights; for his loving kindness endures forever:
8. The sun to rule by day; for his loving kindness endures forever;
9. The moon and stars to rule by night; for his loving kindness endures forever:
10. To the one who struck down the Egyptian firstborn; for his loving kindness endures forever;
11. And brought out Israel from among them; for his loving kindness endures forever;
12. With a strong hand, and with an outstretched arm; for his loving kindness endures forever:
13. To the one who divided the Red Sea apart; for his loving kindness endures forever;
14. And made Israel to pass through the midst of it; for his loving kindness endures forever;
15. But overthrew Pharaoh and his army in the Red Sea; for his loving kindness endures forever:
16. To the one who led their people through the wilderness; for his loving kindness endures forever:
17. To the one who struck great kings; for his loving kindness endures forever;
18. And killed mighty kings; for his loving kindness endures forever:
19. Sihon king of the Amorites; for his loving kindness endures forever;
20. Og king of Bashan; for his loving kindness endures forever;
21. And gave their land as an inheritance; for his loving kindness endures forever;
22. Even a heritage to Israel his servant; for his loving kindness endures forever:
23. Who remembered us in our low estate; for his loving kindness endures forever;
24. And has delivered us from our adversaries; for his loving kindness endures forever:
25. Who gives food to every creature; for his loving kindness endures forever.
26. Oh give thanks to the God of heavens; for his loving kindness endures forever.

Psalms 137
1. By the rivers of Bavel, there we sat down. Yes, we wept, when we remembered Tzion.
2. On the willows in the midst of it, we hung up our harps.
3. For there, those who led us captive asked us for songs. Those who tormented us demanded songs of joy: "Sing us one of the songs of Tzion!"
4. How can we sing YHWH's song in a foreign land?
5. If I forget you, Yerushalayim, let my right hand forget its skill.
6. Let my tongue stick to the roof of my mouth if I don't remember you; if I don't prefer Yerushalayim above my chief joy.
7. Remember, YHWH, against the children of Edom, the day of Yerushalayim; who said, "Raze it! Raze it even to its foundation!"
8. Daughter of Bavel, doomed to destruction, he will be happy who rewards you, as you have served us.
9. Happy shall he be, who takes and dashes your little ones against the rock.

Psalms 138
1. I will give you thanks with my whole heart. Before the gods, I will sing praises to you.
2. I will bow down toward your holy temple, and give thanks to your Name for your loving kindness and for your truth; for you have exalted your Name and your Word above all.
3. In the day that I called, you answered me. You encouraged me with strength in my soul.
4. All the kings of the earth will give you thanks, YHWH, for they have heard the words of your mouth.
5. Yes, they will sing of the ways of YHWH; for great is YHWH's glory.
6. For though YHWH is high, yet he looks after the lowly; but the proud, he knows from afar.
7. Though I walk in the midst of trouble, you will revive me. You will stretch forth your hand against the wrath of my enemies. Your right hand will save me.
8. YHWH will fulfill that which concerns me; your loving kindness, YHWH, endures forever. Don't forsake the works of your own hands.

Psalms 139
1. YHWH, you have searched me, and you know me.
2. You know my sitting down and my rising up. You perceive my thoughts from afar.
3. You search out my path and my lying down, and are acquainted with all my ways.
4. For there is not a word on my tongue, but, behold, YHWH, you know it altogether.
5. You hem me in behind and before. You laid your hand on me.
6. This knowledge is beyond me. It's lofty. I can't attain it.
7. Where could I go from your Ruach? Or where could I flee from your presence?
8. If I ascend up into heavens, you are there. If I make my bed in Sheol, behold, you are there!
9. If I take the wings of the dawn, and settle in the uttermost parts of the sea;
10. Even there your hand will lead me, and your right hand will hold me.
11. If I say, "Surely the darkness will overwhelm me; the light around me will be night;"
12. even the darkness doesn't hide from you, but the night shines as the day. The darkness is like light to you.
13. For you formed my inmost being. You knit me together in my mother's womb.
14. I will give thanks to you, for I am fearfully and wonderfully made. Your works are wonderful. My soul knows that very well.
15. My frame wasn't hidden from you, when I was made in secret, woven together in the depths of the earth.
16. Your eyes saw my body. In your book they were all written, the days that were ordained for me, when as yet there were none of them.
17. How precious to me are your thoughts, Elohim! How vast is the sum of them!
18. If I would count them, they are more in number than the sand. When I wake up, I am still with you.
19. If only you, Elohim, would kill the wicked. Get away from me, you bloodthirsty men!
20. For they speak against you wickedly. Your enemies take your name in vain.
21. YHWH, don't I hate those who hate you? Am I not grieved with those who rise up against you?
22. I hate them with perfect hatred. They have become my enemies.
23. Search me, Elohim, and know my heart. Try me, and know my thoughts.
24. See if there is any wicked way in me, and lead me in the everlasting way.

Psalms 140
1. Deliver me, YHWH, from the brokenness man. Preserve me from the violent man;
2. those who devise mischief in their hearts. They continually gather themselves together for war.
3. They have sharpened their tongues like a serpent. Viper's poison is under their lips. Selah.
4. YHWH, keep me from the hands of the wicked. Preserve me from the violent people who have determined to trip my feet.
5. The proud have hidden a snare for me, they have spread the cords of a net by the path. They have set traps for me. Selah.
6. I said to YHWH, "You are my God." Listen to the cry of my petitions, YHWH.
7. YHWH, YHWH, the strength of my salvation, you have covered my head in the day of battle.
8. YHWH, don't grant the desires of the wicked. Don't let their brokenness plans succeed, or they will become proud. Selah.
9. As for the head of those who surround me, let the mischief of their own lips cover them.
10. Let burning coals fall on them. Let them be thrown into the fire, into miry pits, from where they never rise.
11. An brokenness speaker won't be established in the earth. Brokenness will hunt the violent man to overthrow him.
12. I know that YHWH will maintain the cause of the afflicted, and justice for the needy.
13. Surely the righteous will give thanks to your name. The upright will dwell in your presence.

Psalms 141
1. YHWH, I have called on you. Come to me quickly! Listen to my voice when I call to you.
2. Let my prayer be set before you like incense; the lifting up of my hands like the evening sacrifice.
3. Set a watch, YHWH, before my mouth. Keep the door of my lips.
4. Don't incline my heart to any broken thing, to practice deeds of wickedness with people who work iniquity. Don't let me eat of their delicacies.
5. Let the righteous strike me, it is kindness; let him reprove me, it is like oil on the head; don't let my head refuse it; Yet my prayer is always against broken deeds.
6. Their judges are thrown down by the sides of the rock. They will hear my words, for they are well spoken.
7. "As when one plows and breaks up the earth, our bones are scattered at the mouth of Sheol."
8. For my eyes are on you, YHWH, YHWH. In you, I take refuge. Don't leave my soul destitute.
9. Keep me from the snare which they have laid for me, from the traps of the workers of iniquity.
10. Let the wicked fall together into their own nets, while I pass by.

Psalms 142
1. I cry with my voice to YHWH. With my voice, I ask YHWH for mercy.
2. I pour out my complaint before him. I tell him my troubles.
3. When my spirit was overwhelmed within me, you knew my path. In the way in which I walk, they have hidden a snare for me.
4. Look on my right, and see; for there is no one who is concerned for me. Refuge has fled from me. No one cares for my soul.
5. I cried to you, YHWH. I said, "You are my refuge, my portion in the land of the living."
6. Listen to my cry, for I am in desperate need. deliver me from my persecutors, For they are stronger than me.
7. Bring my soul out of prison, that I may give thanks to your name. The righteous will surround me, for you will be good to me.

Psalms 143
1. Hear my prayer, YHWH. Listen to my petitions. In your faithfulness and righteousness, relieve me.
2. Don't enter into judgment with your servant, for in your sight no one living is righteous.
3. For the enemy pursues my soul. He has struck my life down to the ground. He has made me live in dark places, as those who have been long dead.
4. Therefore my spirit is overwhelmed within me. My heart within me is desolate.
5. I remember the days of old. I meditate on all your doings. I contemplate the work of your hands.
6. I spread forth my hands to you. My soul thirsts for you, like a parched land. Selah.
7. Hurry to answer me, YHWH. My spirit fails. Don't hide your face from me, so that I don't become like those who go down into the pit.
8. Cause me to hear your loving kindness in the morning, for I trust in you. Cause me to know the way in which I should walk, for I lift up my soul to you.
9. Deliver me, YHWH, from my enemies. I flee to you to hide me.
10. Teach me to do your will, for you are my God. Your Ruach is good. Lead me in the land of uprightness.
11. Revive me, YHWH, for your name's sake. In your righteousness, bring my soul out of trouble.
12. In your loving kindness, cut off my enemies, and destroy all those who afflict my soul, For I am your servant.

Psalms 144
1. Blessed be YHWH, my rock, who teaches my hands to war, and my fingers to battle:
2. my loving kindness, my fortress, my high tower, my deliverer, my shield, and he in whom I take refuge; who subdues my people under me.
3. YHWH, what is man, that you care for him? Or the child of humanity, that you think of them?
4. A person is like a breath. His days are like a shadow that passes away.
5. Part your heavens, YHWH, and come down. Touch the mountains, and they will smoke.
6. Throw out lightning, and scatter them. Send out your arrows, and rout them.
7. Stretch out your hand from above, rescue me, and deliver me out of great waters, out of the hands of foreigners;
8. whose mouths speak deceit, Whose right hand is a right hand of falsehood.
9. I will sing a new song to you, Elohim. On a ten-stringed lyre, I will sing praises to you.
10. You are the one who gives salvation to kings, who rescues Dawid, their servant, from the deadly sword.
11. Rescue me, and deliver me out of the hands of foreigners, whose mouths speak deceit, whose right hand is a right hand of falsehood.
12. Then our sons will be like well-nurtured plants, our daughters like pillars carved to adorn a palace.
13. Our barns are full, filled with all kinds of provision. Our sheep bring forth thousands and ten thousands in our fields.
14. Our oxen will pull heavy loads. There is no breaking in, and no going away, and no outcry in our streets.
15. Happy are the people who are in such a situation. Happy are the people whose Elohim is YHWH.

Psalms 145
1. I will exalt you, my God, the King. I will praise your name forever and ever.
2. Every day I will praise you. I will extol your name forever and ever.
3. Great is YHWH, and greatly to be praised! His greatness is unsearchable.
4. One generation will commend your works to another, and will declare your mighty acts.
5. Of the glorious majesty of your honor, of your wondrous works, I will meditate.
6. Men will speak of the might of your awesome acts. I will declare your greatness.
7. They will utter the memory of your great goodness, and will sing of your righteousness.
8. YHWH is gracious, merciful, slow to anger, and of great loving kindness.
9. YHWH is good to all. His tender mercies are over all his works.
10. All your works will give thanks to you, YHWH. Your saints will extol you.
11. They will speak of the glory of your kingdom, and talk about your power;
12. to make known to the human beings his mighty acts, the glory of the majesty of his kingdom.
13. Your kingdom is an everlasting kingdom. Your dominion endures throughout all generations. YHWH is faithful in all his words, and loving in all his deeds.
14. YHWH upholds all who fall, and raises up all those who are bowed down.
15. The eyes of all wait for you. You give them their food in due season.
16. You open your hand, and satisfy the desire of every living thing.
17. YHWH is righteous in all his ways, and gracious in all his works.
18. YHWH is near to all those who call on him, to all who call on him in truth.
19. He will fulfill the desire of those who revere him. He also will hear their cry, and will save them.
20. YHWH preserves all those who love him, but all the wicked he will destroy.
21. My mouth will speak the praise of YHWH. Let all flesh bless his holy name forever and ever.

Psalms 146
1. Praise Yah! Praise YHWH, my soul.
2. While I live, I will praise YHWH. I will sing praises to my God as long as I exist.
3. Don't put your trust in princes, each a child of humanity in whom there is no help.
4. His spirit departs, and he returns to the earth. In that very day, his thoughts perish.
5. Happy is the one who has the God of Ya'akov for their help, whose hope is in YHWH, their God:
6. who made heavens and earth, the sea, and all that is in them; who keeps truth forever;
7. who executes justice for the oppressed; who gives food to the hungry. YHWH frees the prisoners.
8. YHWH opens the eyes of the blind. YHWH raises up those who are bowed down. YHWH loves the righteous.
9. YHWH preserves the foreigners. He upholds the fatherless and widow, but the way of the wicked he turns upside down.
10. YHWH will reign forever; your God, O Tzion, to all generations. Praise Yah!

Psalms 147
1. Praise Yah, for it is good to sing praises to our God; for it is pleasant and fitting to praise him.
2. YHWH builds up Yerushalayim. He gathers together the outcasts of Israel.
3. He heals the broken in heart, and binds up their wounds.
4. He counts the number of the stars. He calls them all by their names.
5. Great is our YHWH, and mighty in power. His understanding is infinite.
6. YHWH upholds the humble. He brings the wicked down to the ground.
7. Sing to YHWH with thanksgiving. Sing praises on the harp to our God,
8. who covers the heavens with clouds, who prepares rain for the earth, who makes grass grow on the mountains.
9. He provides food for the livestock, and for the young ravens when they call.
10. He doesn't delight in the strength of the horse. They takes no pleasure in the legs of a person.
11. YHWH takes pleasure in those who revere him, in those who hope in his loving kindness.
12. Praise YHWH, Yerushalayim! Praise your God, Tzion!
13. For he has strengthened the bars of your gates. He has blessed your children within you.
14. He makes peace in your borders. He fills you with the finest of the wheat.
15. He sends out his commandment to the earth. His word runs very swiftly.
16. He gives snow like wool, and scatters frost like ashes.
17. He hurls down his hail like pebbles. Who can stand before his cold?
18. He sends out his word, and melts them. He causes his wind to blow, and the waters flow.
19. He shows his word to Ya'akov; his statutes and his ordinances to Israel.
20. He has not done this for just any nation. They don't know his ordinances. Praise Yah!

Psalms 148
1. Praise Yah! Praise YHWH from the heavens! Praise him in the heights!
2. Praise him, all his angels! Praise him, all his army!
3. Praise him, sun and moon! Praise him, all you shining stars!
4. Praise him, you heavens of heavens, You waters that are above the heavens.
5. Let them praise the name of YHWH, For he commanded, and they were created.
6. He has also established them forever and ever. He has made a decree which will not pass away.
7. Praise YHWH from the earth, you great sea creatures, and all depths!
8. Lightning and hail, snow and clouds; stormy wind, fulfilling his word;
9. mountains and all hills; fruit trees and all cedars;
10. wild animals and all livestock; small creatures and flying birds;
11. kings of the earth and all peoples; princes and all judges of the earth;
12. both young people and maidens; old men and children:
13. let them praise the name of YHWH, for his name alone is exalted. His glory is above the earth and the heavens.
14. He has lifted up the horn of his people, the praise of all his saints; even of the children of Israel, a people near to him. Praise Yah!

Psalms 149
1. Praise YHWH! Sing to YHWH a new song, his praise in the assembly of the saints.
2. Let Israel rejoice in the one who made them. Let the children of Tzion be joyful in their King.
3. Let them praise his name in the dance! Let them sing praises to him with tambourine and harp!
4. For YHWH takes pleasure in his people. He crowns the humble with salvation.
5. Let the saints rejoice in honor. Let them sing for joy on their beds.
6. May the high praises of Elohim be in their mouths, and a two-edged sword in their hand;
7. To execute vengeance on the nations, and punishments on the peoples;
8. To bind their kings with chains, and their nobles with fetters of iron;
9. to execute on them the written judgment. All his saints have this honor. Praise Yah!

Psalms 150
1. Praise Yah! Praise Elohim in his sanctuary! Praise him in his heavens for his acts of power!
2. Praise him for his mighty acts! Praise him according to his excellent greatness!
3. Praise him with the sounding of the trumpet! Praise him with harp and lyre!
4. Praise him with tambourine and dancing! Praise him with stringed instruments and flute!
5. Praise him with loud cymbals! Praise him with resounding cymbals!
6. Let everything that has breath praise Yah! Praise Yah!

Proverbs 1
1. The proverbs of Shlomo, the son of Dawid, king of Israel:
2. to know wisdom and instruction; to discern the words of understanding;
3. to receive instruction in wise dealing, in righteousness, justice, and equity;
4. to give prudence to the simple, knowledge and discretion to the young person:
5. that the wise person may hear, and increase in learning; that the person of understanding may attain to sound counsel:
6. to understand a proverb, and parables, the words and riddles of the wise.
7. Reverence for YHWH is the beginning of knowledge; but the foolish despise wisdom and instruction.
8. My child, listen to your father's instruction, and don't forsake your mother's teaching:
9. for they will be a garland to grace your head, and chains around your neck.
10. My child, if sinners entice you, don't consent.
11. If they say, "Come with us, Let's lay in wait for blood; let's lurk secretly for the innocent without cause;
12. let's swallow them up alive like Sheol, and whole, like those who go down into the pit.
13. We'll find all valuable wealth. We'll fill our houses with spoil.
14. You shall cast your lot among us. We'll all have one purse."
15. My child, don't walk in the way with them. Keep your foot from their path,
16. for their feet run to brokenness. They hurry to shed blood.
17. For in vain is the net spread in the sight of any bird:
18. but these lay wait for their own blood. They lurk secretly for their own lives.
19. So are the ways of everyone who is greedy for gain. It takes away the life of its owners.
20. Wisdom calls aloud in the street. She utters her voice in the public squares.
21. She calls at the head of noisy places. At the entrance of the city gates, she utters her words:
22. "How long, you simple ones, will you love simplicity? How long will mockers delight themselves in mockery, and fools hate knowledge?
23. Turn at my reproof. Behold, I will pour out my spirit on you. I will make known my words to you.
24. Because I have called, and you have refused; I have stretched out my hand, and no one has paid attention;
25. but you have ignored all my counsel, and wanted none of my reproof;
26. I also will laugh at your disaster. I will mock when calamity overtakes you;
27. when calamity overtakes you like a storm, when your disaster comes on like a whirlwind; when distress and anguish come on you.
28. Then will they call on me, but I will not answer. They will seek me diligently, but they will not find me;
29. because they hated knowledge, and didn't choose reverence for YHWH.
30. They wanted none of my counsel. They despised all my reproof.
31. Therefore they will eat of the fruit of their own way, and be filled with their own schemes.
32. For the backsliding of the simple will kill them. The careless ease of fools will destroy them.
33. But whoever listens to me will dwell securely, and will be at ease, without fear of harm."

Proverbs 2
1. My child, if you will receive my words, and store up my commandments within you;
2. So as to turn your ear to wisdom, and apply your heart to understanding;
3. Yes, if you call out for discernment, and lift up your voice for understanding;
4. If you seek her as silver, and search for her as for hidden treasures:
5. then you will understand reverence for YHWH, and find the knowledge of Elohim.
6. For YHWH gives wisdom. Out of his mouth comes knowledge and understanding.
7. He lays up sound wisdom for the upright. He is a shield to those who walk in integrity;
8. that he may guard the paths of justice, and preserve the way of his saints.
9. Then you will understand righteousness and justice, equity and every good path.
10. For wisdom will enter into your heart. Knowledge will be pleasant to your soul.
11. Discretion will watch over you. Understanding will keep you,
12. to deliver you from the way of brokenness, from the people who speak perverse things;
13. who forsake the paths of uprightness, to walk in the ways of darkness;
14. who rejoice to do brokenness, and delight in the perverseness of brokenness;
15. who are crooked in their ways, and wayward in their paths:
16. To deliver you from the strange woman, even from the foreigner who flatters with her words;
17. who forsakes the friend of her youth, and forgets the covenant of her God:
18. for her house leads down to death, her paths to the dead.
19. None who go to her return again, neither do they attain to the paths of life:
20. that you may walk in the way of good men, and keep the paths of the righteous.
21. For the upright will dwell in the land. The perfect will remain in it.
22. But the wicked will be cut off from the land. The treacherous will be rooted out of it.

Proverbs 3
1. My child, don't forget my teaching; but let your heart keep my commandments:
2. for length of days, and years of life, and peace, will they add to you.
3. Don't let kindness and truth forsake you. Bind them around your neck. Write them on the tablet of your heart.
4. So you will find favor, and good understanding in the sight of Elohim and man.
5. Trust in YHWH with all your heart, and don't lean on your own understanding.
6. In all your ways acknowledge him, and he will make your paths straight.
7. Don't be wise in your own eyes. Revere YHWH, and depart from harm.
8. It will be health to your body, and nourishment to your bones.
9. Honor YHWH with your substance, with the first fruits of all your increase:
10. so your barns will be filled with plenty, and your vats will overflow with new wine.
11. My child, don't despise YHWH's discipline, neither be weary of his reproof:
12. for whom YHWH loves, he reproves; even as a father reproves the son in whom he delights.
13. Happy is the one who finds wisdom, the one who gets understanding.
14. For her good profit is better than getting silver, and her return is better than fine gold.
15. She is more precious than rubies. None of the things you can desire are to be compared to her.
16. Length of days is in her right hand. In her left hand are riches and honor.
17. Her ways are ways of pleasantness. All her paths are peace.
18. She is a tree of life to those who lay hold of her. Happy is everyone who retains her.
19. By wisdom YHWH founded the earth. By understanding, he established the heavens.
20. By his knowledge, the depths were broken up, and the skies drop down the dew.
21. My child, let them not depart from your eyes. Keep sound wisdom and discretion:
22. so they will be life to your soul, and grace for your neck.
23. Then you shall walk in your way securely. Your foot won't stumble.
24. When you lie down, you will not be afraid. Yes, you will lie down, and your sleep will be sweet.
25. Don't be afraid of sudden fear, neither of the desolation of the wicked, when it comes:
26. for YHWH will be your confidence, and will keep your foot from being taken.
27. Don't withhold good from those to whom it is due, when it is in the power of your hand to do it.
28. Don't say to your neighbor, "Go, and come again; tomorrow I will give it to you," when you have it by you.
29. Don't devise brokenness against your neighbor, seeing he dwells securely by you.
30. Don't strive with a person without cause, if they have done you no harm.
31. Don't envy the violent person. Choose none of his ways.
32. For the perverse is an abomination to YHWH, but his friendship is with the upright.
33. YHWH's curse is in the house of the wicked, but he blesses the habitation of the righteous.
34. Surely he mocks the mockers, but he gives grace to the humble.
35. The wise will inherit glory, but shame will be the promotion of fools.

Proverbs 4
1. Listen, sons, to a father's instruction. Pay attention and know understanding;
2. for I give you sound learning. Don't forsake my law.
3. For I was a son to my father, tender and an only child in the sight of my mother.
4. He taught me, and said to me: "Let your heart retain my words. Keep my commandments, and live.
5. Get wisdom. Get understanding. Don't forget, neither swerve from the words of my mouth.
6. Don't forsake her, and she will preserve you. Love her, and she will keep you.
7. Wisdom is supreme. Get wisdom. Yes, though it costs all your possessions, get understanding.
8. Esteem her, and she will exalt you. She will bring you to honor, when you embrace her.
9. She will give to your head a garland of grace. She will deliver a crown of splendor to you."
10. Listen, my child, and receive my sayings. The years of your life will be many.
11. I have taught you in the way of wisdom. I have led you in straight paths.
12. When you go, your steps will not be hampered. When you run, you will not stumble.
13. Take firm hold of instruction. Don't let her go. Keep her, for she is your life.
14. Don't enter into the path of the wicked. Don't walk in the way of brokenness men.
15. Avoid it, and don't pass by it. Turn from it, and pass on.
16. For they don't sleep, unless they do brokenness. Their sleep is taken away, unless they make someone fall.
17. For they eat the bread of wickedness, and drink the wine of violence.
18. But the path of the righteous is like the dawning light, that shines more and more until the perfect day.
19. The way of the wicked is like darkness. They don't know what they stumble over.
20. My child, attend to my words. Turn your ear to my sayings.
21. Let them not depart from your eyes. Keep them in the midst of your heart.
22. For they are life to those who find them, and health to their whole body.
23. Keep your heart with all diligence, for out of it is the wellspring of life.
24. Put away from yourself a perverse mouth. Put corrupt lips far from you.
25. Let your eyes look straight ahead. Fix your gaze directly before you.
26. Make the path of your feet level. Let all of your ways be established.
27. Don't turn to the right hand nor to the left. Remove your foot from harm.

Proverbs 5
1. My child, pay attention to my wisdom. Turn your ear to my understanding:
2. that you may maintain discretion, that your lips may preserve knowledge.
3. For the lips of an adulteress drip honey. Her mouth is smoother than oil,
4. But in the end she is as bitter as wormwood, and as sharp as a two-edged sword.
5. Her feet go down to death. Her steps lead straight to Sheol.
6. She gives no thought to the way of life. Her ways are crooked, and she doesn't know it.
7. Now therefore, my children, listen to me. Don't depart from the words of my mouth.
8. Remove your way far from her. Don't come near the door of her house,
9. lest you give your honor to others, and your years to the cruel one;
10. lest strangers feast on your wealth, and your labors enrich another person's house.
11. You will groan at your latter end, when your flesh and your body are consumed,
12. and say, "How I have hated instruction, and my heart despised reproof;
13. neither have I obeyed the voice of my teachers, nor turned my ear to those who instructed me!
14. I have come to the brink of utter ruin, in the midst of the gathered assembly."
15. Drink water out of your own cistern, running water out of your own well.
16. Should your springs overflow in the streets, streams of water in the public squares?
17. Let them be for yourself alone, not for strangers with you.
18. Let your spring be blessed. Rejoice in the wife of your youth.
19. A loving doe and a graceful deer--let her breasts satisfy you at all times. Be captivated always with her love.
20. For why should you, my child, be captivated with an adulteress? Why embrace the bosom of another?
21. For the ways of man are before the eyes of YHWH. He examines all his paths.
22. The broken deeds of the wicked ensnare him. The cords of his sin hold him firmly.
23. He will die for lack of instruction. In the greatness of his folly, he will go astray.

Proverbs 6
1. My child, if you have become collateral for your neighbor, if you have struck your hands in pledge for a stranger;
2. You are trapped by the words of your mouth. You are ensnared with the words of your mouth.
3. Do this now, my child, and deliver yourself, seeing you have come into the hand of your neighbor. Go, humble yourself. Press your plea with your neighbor.
4. Give no sleep to your eyes, nor slumber to your eyelids.
5. Free yourself, like a gazelle from the hand of the hunter, like a bird from the snare of the fowler.
6. Go to the ant, you sluggard. Consider her ways, and be wise;
7. which having no chief, overseer, or ruler,
8. provides her bread in the summer, and gathers her food in the harvest.
9. How long will you sleep, sluggard? When will you arise out of your sleep?
10. A little sleep, a little slumber, a little folding of the hands to sleep:
11. so your poverty will come as a robber, and your scarcity as an armed man.
12. A worthless person, a person of iniquity, is the one who walks with a perverse mouth;
13. who winks with his eyes, who signals with his feet, who motions with his fingers;
14. in whose heart is perverseness, who devises brokenness continually, who always sows discord.
15. Therefore his calamity will come suddenly. He will be broken suddenly, and that without remedy.
16. There are six things which YHWH hates; yes, seven which are an abomination to him:
17. haughty eyes, a lying tongue, hands that shed innocent blood;
18. a heart that devises wicked schemes, feet that are swift in running to mischief,
19. a false witness who utters lies, and the one who sows discord among brothers.
20. My child, keep your father's commandment, and don't forsake your mother's teaching.
21. Bind them continually on your heart. Tie them around your neck.
22. When you walk, it will lead you. When you sleep, it will watch over you. When you awake, it will talk with you.
23. For the commandment is a lamp, and the law is light. Reproofs of instruction are the way of life,
24. to keep you from the immoral woman, from the flattery of the wayward wife's tongue.
25. Don't lust after her beauty in your heart, neither let her captivate you with her eyelids.
26. For a prostitute reduces you to a piece of bread. The adulteress hunts for your precious life.
27. Can a person scoop fire into their lap, and their clothes not be burned?
28. Or can one walk on hot coals, and his feet not be scorched?
29. So is the one who goes in to their neighbor's wife. Whoever touches her will not be unpunished.
30. Men don't despise a thief, if he steals to satisfy himself when he is hungry:
31. but if he is found, he shall restore seven times. He shall give all the wealth of his house.
32. The one who commits adultery with a woman is void of understanding. The one who does it destroys their own soul.
33. He will get wounds and dishonor. His reproach will not be wiped away.
34. For jealousy arouses the fury of the husband. He won't spare in the day of vengeance.
35. He won't regard any ransom, neither will he rest content, though you give many gifts.

Proverbs 7
1. My child, keep my words. Lay up my commandments within you.
2. Keep my commandments and live! Guard my teaching as the apple of your eye.
3. Bind them on your fingers. Write them on the tablet of your heart.
4. Tell wisdom, "You are my sister." Call understanding your relative,
5. that they may keep you from the strange woman, from the foreigner who flatters with her words.
6. For at the window of my house, I looked out through my lattice.
7. I saw among the simple ones. I discerned among the youths a young person void of understanding,
8. passing through the street near her corner, he went the way to her house,
9. in the twilight, in the evening of the day, in the middle of the night and in the darkness.
10. Behold, there a woman met him with the attire of a prostitute, and with crafty intent.
11. She is loud and defiant. Her feet don't stay in her house.
12. Now she is in the streets, now in the squares, and lurking at every corner.
13. So she caught him, and kissed him. With an impudent face she said to him:
14. "Sacrifices of peace offerings are with me. This day I have paid my vows.
15. Therefore I came out to meet you, to diligently seek your face, and I have found you.
16. I have spread my couch with carpets of tapestry, with striped cloths of the yarn of Mitzrayim.
17. I have perfumed my bed with myrrh, aloes, and cinnamon.
18. Come, let's take our fill of loving until the morning. Let's solace ourselves with loving.
19. For my husband isn't at home. He has gone on a long journey.
20. He has taken a bag of money with him. He will come home at the full moon."
21. With persuasive words, she led him astray. With the flattering of her lips, she seduced him.
22. They followed her immediately, as an ox goes to the slaughter, as a fool stepping into a noose.
23. Until an arrow strikes through his liver, as a bird hurries to the snare, and doesn't know that it will cost his life.
24. Now therefore, sons, listen to me. Pay attention to the words of my mouth.
25. Don't let your heart turn to her ways. Don't go astray in her paths,
26. for she has thrown down many wounded. Yes, all her slain are a mighty army.
27. Her house is the way to Sheol, going down to the chambers of death.

Proverbs 8
1. Doesn't wisdom cry out? Doesn't understanding raise her voice?
2. On the top of high places by the way, where the paths meet, she stands.
3. Beside the gates, at the entry of the city, at the entry doors, she cries aloud:
4. "To you men, I call! I send my voice to the sons of humanity.
5. You simple, understand prudence. You fools, be of an understanding heart.
6. Hear, for I will speak excellent things. The opening of my lips is for right things.
7. For my mouth speaks truth. Wickedness is an abomination to my lips.
8. All the words of my mouth are in righteousness. There is nothing crooked or perverse in them.
9. They are all plain to the one who understands, right to those who find knowledge.
10. Receive my instruction rather than silver; knowledge rather than choice gold.
11. For wisdom is better than rubies. All the things that may be desired can't be compared to it.
12. "I, wisdom, have made prudence my dwelling. Find out knowledge and discretion.
13. Reverence for YHWH is to hate brokenness. I hate pride, arrogance, the broken way, and the perverse mouth.
14. Counsel and sound knowledge are mine. I have understanding and power.
15. By me kings reign, and princes decree justice.
16. By me princes rule; nobles, and all the righteous rulers of the earth.
17. I love those who love me. Those who seek me diligently will find me.
18. With me are riches, honor, enduring wealth, and prosperity.
19. My fruit is better than gold, yes, than fine gold; my yield than choice silver.
20. I walk in the way of righteousness, in the midst of the paths of justice;
21. That I may give wealth to those who love me. I fill their treasuries.
22. "YHWH possessed me in the beginning of his work, before his deeds of old.
23. I was set up from everlasting, from the beginning, before the earth existed.
24. When there were no depths, I was brought forth, when there were no springs abounding with water.
25. Before the mountains were settled in place, before the hills, I was brought forth;
26. while as yet he had not made the earth, nor the fields, nor the beginning of the dust of the world.
27. When he established the heavens, I was there; when he set a circle on the surface of the deep,
28. when he established the clouds above, when the springs of the deep became strong,
29. when he gave to the sea its boundary, that the waters should not violate his commandment, when he marked out the foundations of the earth;
30. then I was the craftsman by his side. I was a delight day by day, always rejoicing before him,
31. Rejoicing in his whole world. My delight was with the human beings.
32. "Now therefore, my children, listen to me, for blessed are those who keep my ways.
33. Hear instruction, and be wise. Don't refuse it.
34. Blessed is the one who hears me, watching daily at my gates, waiting at my door posts.
35. For whoever finds me, finds life, and will obtain favor from YHWH.
36. But the one who sins against me wrongs their own soul. All those who hate me love death."

Proverbs 9
1. Wisdom has built her house. She has carved out her seven pillars.
2. She has prepared her meat. She has mixed her wine. She has also set her table.
3. She has sent out her maidens. She cries from the highest places of the city:
4. "Whoever is simple, let them turn in here!" As for the one who is void of understanding, she says to them,
5. "Come, eat some of my bread, Drink some of the wine which I have mixed!
6. Leave your simple ways, and live. Walk in the way of understanding."
7. The one who corrects a mocker invites insult. The one who reproves a broken person invites abuse.
8. Don't reprove a scoffer, lest he hate you. Reprove a wise person, and they will love you.
9. Instruct a wise person, and they will be still wiser. Teach a righteous person, and they will increase in learning.
10. Reverence for YHWH is the beginning of wisdom. The knowledge of the Holy One is understanding.
11. For by me your days will be multiplied. The years of your life will be increased.
12. If you are wise, you are wise for yourself. If you mock, you alone will bear it.
13. The foolish woman is loud, Undisciplined, and knows nothing.
14. She sits at the door of her house, on a seat in the high places of the city,
15. To call to those who pass by, who go straight on their ways,
16. "Whoever is simple, let them turn in here." as for the one who is void of understanding, she says to them,
17. "Stolen water is sweet. Food eaten in secret is pleasant."
18. But he doesn't know that the dead are there, that her guests are in the depths of Sheol.

Proverbs 10
1. The proverbs of Shlomo. A wise son makes a glad father; but a foolish son brings grief to his mother.
2. Treasures of wickedness profit nothing, but righteousness delivers from death.
3. YHWH will not allow the soul of the righteous to go hungry, but he thrusts away the desire of the wicked.
4. He becomes poor who works with a lazy hand, but the hand of the diligent brings wealth.
5. The one who gathers in summer is a wise son, but the one who sleeps during the harvest is a son who causes shame.
6. Blessings are on the head of the righteous, but violence covers the mouth of the wicked.
7. The memory of the righteous is blessed, but the name of the wicked will rot.
8. The wise in heart accept commandments, but a chattering fool will fall.
9. The one who walks blamelessly walks surely, but the one who perverts their ways will be found out.
10. One winking with the eye causes sorrow, but a chattering fool will fall.
11. The mouth of the righteous is a spring of life, but violence covers the mouth of the wicked.
12. Hatred stirs up strife, but love covers all wrongs.
13. Wisdom is found on the lips of the one who has discernment, but a rod is for the back of the one who is void of understanding.
14. Wise people lay up knowledge, but the mouth of the foolish is near ruin.
15. The rich person's wealth is their strong city. The destruction of the poor is their poverty.
16. The labor of the righteous leads to life. The increase of the wicked leads to sin.
17. The one who heeds correction is in the way of life, but the one who forsakes reproof leads others astray.
18. The one who hides hatred has lying lips. The one who utters a slander is a fool.
19. In the multitude of words there is no lack of disobedience, but the one who restrains their lips does wisely.
20. The tongue of the righteous is like choice silver. The heart of the wicked is of little worth.
21. The lips of the righteous feed many, but the foolish die for lack of understanding.
22. YHWH's blessing brings wealth, and he adds no trouble to it.
23. It is a fool's pleasure to do wickedness, but wisdom is a person of understanding's pleasure.
24. What the wicked fear, will overtake them, but the desire of the righteous will be granted.
25. When the whirlwind passes, the wicked is no more; but the righteous stand firm forever.
26. As vinegar to the teeth, and as smoke to the eyes, so is the sluggard to those who send him.
27. Reverence for YHWH prolongs days, but the years of the wicked shall be shortened.
28. The prospect of the righteous is joy, but the hope of the wicked will perish.
29. The way of YHWH is a stronghold to the upright, but it is a destruction to the workers of iniquity.
30. The righteous will never be removed, but the wicked will not dwell in the land.
31. The mouth of the righteous brings forth wisdom, but the perverse tongue will be cut off.
32. The lips of the righteous know what is acceptable, but the mouth of the wicked is perverse.

Proverbs 11
1. A false balance is an abomination to YHWH, but accurate weights are his delight.
2. When pride comes, then comes shame, but with humility comes wisdom.
3. The integrity of the upright shall guide them, but the perverseness of the treacherous shall destroy them.
4. Riches don't profit in the day of wrath, but righteousness delivers from death.
5. The righteousness of the blameless will direct his way, but the wicked shall fall by his own wickedness.
6. The righteousness of the upright shall deliver them, but the unfaithful will be trapped by broken desires.
7. When a broken person dies, hope perishes, and expectation of power comes to nothing.
8. A righteous person is delivered out of trouble, and the wicked takes their place.
9. With his mouth the godless man destroys his neighbor, but the righteous will be delivered through knowledge.
10. When it goes well with the righteous, the city rejoices. When the wicked perish, there is shouting.
11. By the blessing of the upright, the city is exalted, but it is overthrown by the mouth of the wicked.
12. One who despises their neighbor is void of wisdom, but a person of understanding holds their peace.
13. One who brings gossip betrays a confidence, but one who is of a trustworthy spirit is one who keeps a secret.
14. Where there is no wise guidance, the nation falls, but in the multitude of counselors there is victory.
15. The one who is collateral for a stranger will suffer for it, but the one who refuses pledges of collateral is secure.
16. A gracious woman obtains honor, but violent men obtain riches.
17. The merciful man does good to their own soul, but the one who is cruel troubles their own flesh.
18. Wicked people earn deceitful wages, but one who sows righteousness reaps a sure reward.
19. The one who is truly righteous gets life. The one who pursues brokenness gets death.
20. Those who are perverse in heart are an abomination to YHWH, but those whose ways are blameless are his delight.
21. Most certainly, the brokenness man will not be unpunished, but the seed of the righteous will be delivered.
22. Like a gold ring in a pig's snout, is a beautiful woman who lacks discretion.
23. The desire of the righteous is only good. The expectation of the wicked is wrath.
24. There is one who scatters, and increases yet more. There is one who withholds more than is appropriate, but gains poverty.
25. The liberal soul shall be made fat. The one who waters shall be watered also themselves.
26. People curse someone who withholds grain, but blessing will be on the head of the one who sells it.
27. The one who diligently seeks good seeks favor, but the one who searches after brokenness, it shall come to them.
28. The one who trusts in their riches will fall, but the righteous shall flourish as the green leaf.
29. The one who troubles their own house shall inherit the wind. The foolish shall be servant to the wise of heart.
30. The fruit of the righteous is a tree of life. The one who is wise wins souls.
31. Behold, the righteous shall be repaid in the earth; how much more the wicked and the sinner!

Proverbs 12
1. Whoever loves correction loves knowledge, but the one who hates reproof is stupid.
2. A good man shall obtain favor from YHWH, but they will condemn a person of wicked devices.
3. A person shall not be established by wickedness, but the root of the righteous shall not be moved.
4. A worthy woman is the crown of her husband, but a disgraceful wife is as rottenness in his bones.
5. The thoughts of the righteous are just, but the advice of the wicked is deceitful.
6. The words of the wicked are about lying in wait for blood, but the speech of the upright rescues them.
7. The wicked are overthrown, and are no more, but the house of the righteous shall stand.
8. A person shall be commended according to their wisdom, but the one who has a warped mind shall be despised.
9. Better is the one who is lightly esteemed, and has a servant, than the one who honors themselves, and lacks bread.
10. A righteous person regards the life of their animal, but the tender mercies of the wicked are cruel.
11. The one who tills their land shall have plenty of bread, but the one who chases fantasies is void of understanding.
12. The wicked desires the plunder of brokenness men, but the root of the righteous flourishes.
13. An brokenness a person is trapped by sinfulness of lips, but the righteous shall come out of trouble.
14. A person shall be satisfied with good by the fruit of their mouth. The work of a person's hands shall be rewarded to them.
15. The way of a fool is right in their own eyes, but the one who is wise listens to counsel.
16. A fool shows their annoyance the same day, but one who overlooks an insult is prudent.
17. The one who is truthful testifies honestly, but a false witness lies.
18. There is one who speaks rashly like the piercing of a sword, but the tongue of the wise heals.
19. Truth's lips will be established forever, but a lying tongue is only momentary.
20. Deceit is in the heart of those who plot brokenness, but joy comes to the promoters of peace.
21. No mischief shall happen to the righteous, but the wicked shall be filled with brokenness.
22. Lying lips are an abomination to YHWH, but those who do the truth are his delight.
23. A prudent man keeps his knowledge, but the hearts of fools proclaim foolishness.
24. The hands of the diligent ones shall rule, but laziness ends in slave labor.
25. Anxiety in a person's heart weighs it down, but a kind word makes it glad.
26. A righteous person is cautious in friendship, but the way of the wicked leads them astray.
27. The slothful man doesn't roast his game, but the possessions of diligent people are prized.
28. In the way of righteousness is life; in its path there is no death.

Proverbs 13
1. A wise son listens to his father's instruction, but a scoffer doesn't listen to rebuke.
2. By the fruit of their lips, a person enjoys good things; but the unfaithful crave violence.
3. The one who guards their mouth guards their soul. One who opens wide their lips comes to ruin.
4. The soul of the sluggard desires, and has nothing, but the desire of the diligent shall be fully satisfied.
5. A righteous person hates lies, but a broken person brings shame and disgrace.
6. Righteousness guards the way of integrity, but wickedness overthrows the sinner.
7. There are some who pretend to be rich, yet have nothing. There are some who pretend to be poor, yet have great wealth.
8. The ransom of a person's life is their riches, but the poor hear no threats.
9. The light of the righteous shines brightly, but the lamp of the wicked is snuffed out.
10. Pride only breeds quarrels, but with ones who take advice is wisdom.
11. Wealth gained dishonestly dwindles away, but the one who gathers by hand makes it grow.
12. Hope deferred makes the heart sick, but when longing is fulfilled, it is a tree of life.
13. Whoever despises instruction will pay for it, but the one who respects a command will be rewarded.
14. The teaching of the wise is a spring of life, to turn from the snares of death.
15. Good understanding wins favor; but the way of the unfaithful is hard.
16. Every prudent man acts from knowledge, but a fool exposes folly.
17. A wicked messenger falls into trouble, but a trustworthy envoy gains healing.
18. Poverty and shame come to the one who refuses discipline, but the one who heeds correction shall be honored.
19. Longing fulfilled is sweet to the soul, but fools detest turning from harm.
20. One who walks with wise people grows wise, but a companion of fools suffers harm.
21. Misfortune pursues sinners, but prosperity rewards the righteous.
22. A good man leaves an inheritance to his children's children, but the wealth of the sinner is stored for the righteous.
23. An abundance of food is in poor people's fields, but injustice sweeps it away.
24. One who spares the rod hates their son, but one who loves him is careful to discipline him.
25. The righteous one eats to the satisfying of his soul, but the belly of the wicked goes hungry.

Proverbs 14
1. Every wise woman builds her house, but the foolish one tears it down with her own hands.
2. The one who walks in their uprightness reveres YHWH, but the one who is perverse in their ways despises him.
3. The fool's talk brings a rod to their back, but the lips of the wise protect them.
4. Where no oxen are, the crib is clean, but much increase is by the strength of the ox.
5. A truthful witness will not lie, but a false witness pours out lies.
6. A scoffer seeks wisdom, and doesn't find it, but knowledge comes easily to a discerning person.
7. Stay away from a foolish person, for you won't find knowledge on their lips.
8. The wisdom of the prudent is to think about their way, but the folly of fools is deceit.
9. Fools mock at making atonement for sins, but among the upright there is good will.
10. The heart knows its own bitterness and joy; he will not share these with a stranger.
11. The house of the wicked will be overthrown, but the tent of the upright will flourish.
12. There is a way which seems right to a person, but in the end it leads to death.
13. Even in laughter the heart may be sorrowful, and mirth may end in heaviness.
14. The unfaithful will be repaid for his own ways; likewise a good man will be rewarded for his ways.
15. The simple believes everything, but the prudent gives thought to their steps.
16. A wise person fears, and shuns brokenness, but the fool is hotheaded and reckless.
17. The one who is quick to become angry will commit folly, and a crafty person is hated.
18. The simple inherit folly, but the prudent are crowned with knowledge.
19. The brokenness bow down before the good, and the wicked at the gates of the righteous.
20. The poor person is shunned even by their own neighbor, but the rich person has many friends.
21. The one who despises their neighbor sins, but blessed is the one who has pity on the poor.
22. Don't they go astray who plot brokenness? But love and faithfulness belong to those who plan good.
23. In all hard work there is profit, but the talk of the lips leads only to poverty.
24. The crown of the wise is their riches, but the folly of fools crowns them with folly.
25. A truthful witness saves souls, but a false witness is deceitful.
26. In reverence for YHWH is a secure fortress, and he will be a refuge for his children.
27. Reverence for YHWH is a fountain of life, turning people from the snares of death.
28. In the multitude of people is the king's glory, but in the lack of people is the destruction of the prince.
29. The one who is slow to anger has great understanding, but the one who has a quick temper displays folly.
30. The life of the body is a heart at peace, but envy rots the bones.
31. The one who oppresses the poor shows contempt for their Maker, but the one who is kind to the needy honors him.
32. The wicked is brought down in his calamity, but in death, the righteous has a refuge.
33. Wisdom rests in the heart of one who has understanding, and is even made known in the inward part of fools.
34. Righteousness exalts a nation, but sin is a disgrace to any people.
35. The king's favor is toward a servant who deals wisely, but their wrath is toward one who causes shame.

Proverbs 15
1. A gentle answer turns away wrath, but a harsh word stirs up anger.
2. The tongue of the wise commends knowledge, but the mouth of fools gush out folly.
3. YHWH's eyes are everywhere, keeping watch on the brokenness and the good.
4. A gentle tongue is a tree of life, but deceit in it crushes the spirit.
5. A fool despises their father's correction, but the one who heeds reproof shows prudence.
6. In the house of the righteous is much treasure, but the income of the wicked brings trouble.
7. The lips of the wise spread knowledge; not so with the heart of fools.
8. The sacrifice made by the wicked is an abomination to YHWH, but the prayer of the upright is his delight.
9. The way of the wicked is an abomination to YHWH, but they loves the one who follows after righteousness.
10. There is stern discipline for one who forsakes the way: whoever hates reproof shall die.
11. Sheol and Abaddon are before YHWH--how much more then the hearts of the children of people!
12. A scoffer doesn't love to be reproved; he will not go to the wise.
13. A glad heart makes a cheerful face; but an aching heart breaks the spirit.
14. The heart of one who has understanding seeks knowledge, but the mouths of fools feed on folly.
15. All the days of the afflicted are wretched, but one who has a cheerful heart enjoys a continual feast.
16. Better is little, with reverence for YHWH, than great treasure with trouble.
17. Better is a dinner of herbs, where love is, than a fattened calf with hatred.
18. A wrathful man stirs up contention, but one who is slow to anger appeases strife.
19. The way of the sluggard is like a thorn patch, but the path of the upright is a highway.
20. A wise son makes a father glad, but a foolish person despises their mother.
21. Folly is joy to one who is void of wisdom, but a person of understanding keeps their way straight.
22. Where there is no counsel, plans fail; but in a multitude of counselors they are established.
23. Joy comes to a person with the reply of their mouth. How good is a word at the right time!
24. The path of life leads upward for the wise, to keep him from going downward to Sheol.
25. YHWH will uproot the house of the proud, but he will keep the widow's borders intact.
26. YHWH detests the thoughts of the wicked, but the thoughts of the pure are pleasing.
27. The one who is greedy for gain troubles their own house, but the one who hates bribes will live.
28. The heart of the righteous weighs answers, but the mouth of the wicked gushes out brokenness.
29. YHWH is far from the wicked, but he hears the prayer of the righteous.
30. The light of the eyes rejoices the heart. Good news gives health to the bones.
31. The ear that listens to reproof lives, and will be at home among the wise.
32. The one who refuses correction despises their own soul, but the one who listens to reproof gets understanding.
33. Reverence for YHWH teaches wisdom. Before honor is humility.

Proverbs 16
1. The plans of the heart belong to man, but the answer of the tongue is from YHWH.
2. All the ways of a person are clean in their own eyes; but YHWH weighs the motives.
3. Commit your deeds to YHWH, and your plans shall succeed.
4. YHWH has made everything for its own end--yes, even the wicked for the day of brokenness.
5. Everyone who is proud in heart is an abomination to YHWH: they shall certainly not be unpunished.
6. By mercy and truth iniquity is atoned for. By reverence for YHWH men depart from harm.
7. When someone's ways please YHWH, they make even their enemies to be at peace with him.
8. Better is a little with righteousness, than great revenues with injustice.
9. A person's heart plans their course, but YHWH directs their steps.
10. Inspired judgments are on the lips of the king. He shall not betray his mouth.
11. Honest balances and scales are YHWH's; all the weights in the bag are his work.
12. It is an abomination for kings to do wrong, for the throne is established by righteousness.
13. Righteous lips are the delight of kings. They value one who speaks the truth.
14. The king's wrath is a messenger of death, but a wise person will pacify it.
15. In the light of the king's face is life. His favor is like a cloud of the spring rain.
16. How much better it is to get wisdom than gold! Yes, to get understanding is to be chosen rather than silver.
17. The highway of the upright is to depart from harm. The one who keeps their way preserves their soul.
18. Pride goes before destruction, and a haughty spirit before a fall.
19. It is better to be of a lowly spirit with the poor, than to divide the plunder with the proud.
20. The one who heeds the Word finds prosperity. Whoever trusts in YHWH is blessed.
21. The wise in heart shall be called prudent. Pleasantness of the lips promotes instruction.
22. Understanding is a fountain of life to one who has it, but the punishment of fools is their folly.
23. The heart of the wise instructs his mouth, and adds learning to his lips.
24. Pleasant words are a honeycomb, sweet to the soul, and health to the bones.
25. There is a way which seems right to a person, but in the end it leads to death.
26. The appetite of the laboring man labors for him; for his mouth urges him on.
27. A worthless man devises mischief. His speech is like a scorching fire.
28. A perverse man stirs up strife. A whisperer separates close friends.
29. A violent person entices their neighbor, and leads them in a way that is not good.
30. One who winks their eyes to plot perversities, one who compresses their lips, is bent on brokenness.
31. Gray hair is a crown of glory. It is attained by a life of righteousness.
32. One who is slow to anger is better than the mighty; one who rules their spirit, than the one who takes a city.
33. The lot is cast into the lap, but its every decision is from YHWH.

Proverbs 17
1. Better is a dry morsel with quietness, than a house full of feasting with strife.
2. A servant who deals wisely will rule over a son who causes shame, and shall have a part in the inheritance among the brothers.
3. The refining pot is for silver, and the furnace for gold, but YHWH tests the hearts.
4. An one who acts from brokenness heeds wicked lips. A liar gives ear to a mischievous tongue.
5. Whoever mocks the poor reproaches their Maker. The one who is glad at calamity shall not be unpunished.
6. Children's children are the crown of old men; the glory of children are their parents.
7. Arrogant speech isn't fitting for a fool, much less do lying lips fit a prince.
8. A bribe is a precious stone in the eyes of the one who gives it; wherever he turns, he prospers.
9. The one who covers an offense promotes love; but the one who repeats a matter separates best friends.
10. A rebuke enters deeper into one who has understanding than a hundred lashes into a fool.
11. An brokenness man seeks only rebellion; therefore a cruel messenger shall be sent against him.
12. Let a bear robbed of her cubs meet a person, rather than a fool in their folly.
13. Whoever rewards brokenness for good, brokenness shall not depart from their house.
14. The beginning of strife is like breaching a dam, therefore stop contention before quarreling breaks out.
15. The one who justifies the wicked, and the one who condemns the righteous, both of them alike are an abomination to YHWH.
16. Why is there money in the hand of a fool to buy wisdom, seeing they have no understanding?
17. A friend loves at all times; and a brother is born for adversity.
18. A person void of understanding strikes hands, and becomes collateral in the presence of their neighbor.
19. The one who loves disobedience loves strife. One who builds a high gate seeks destruction.
20. One who has a perverse heart doesn't find prosperity, and one who has a deceitful tongue falls into trouble.
21. The one who becomes the father of a fool grieves. The father of a fool has no joy.
22. A cheerful heart makes good medicine, but a crushed spirit dries up the bones.
23. A broken person receives a bribe in secret, to pervert the ways of justice.
24. Wisdom is before the face of one who has understanding, but the eyes of a fool wander to the ends of the earth.
25. A foolish son brings grief to his father, and bitterness to her who bore him.
26. Also to punish the righteous is not good, nor to flog officials for their integrity.
27. The one who spares their words has knowledge. The one who is even tempered is a person of understanding.
28. Even a fool, when they keep silent, is counted wise. When he shuts his lips, he is thought to be discerning.

Proverbs 18
1. An unfriendly man pursues selfishness, and defies all sound judgment.
2. A fool has no delight in understanding, but only in revealing their own opinion.
3. When wickedness comes, contempt also comes, and with shame comes disgrace.
4. The words of a person's mouth are like deep waters. The fountain of wisdom is like a flowing brook.
5. To be partial to the faces of the wicked is not good, nor to deprive the innocent of justice.
6. A fool's lips come into strife, and their mouth invites beatings.
7. A fool's mouth is their destruction, and their lips are a snare to their soul.
8. The words of a gossip are like dainty morsels: they go down into a person's innermost parts.
9. One who is slack in their work is brother to the one who is a master of destruction.
10. The name of YHWH is a strong tower: the righteous run to him, and are safe.
11. The rich person's wealth is their strong city, like an unscalable wall in their own imagination.
12. Before destruction the human heart is proud, but before honor is humility.
13. The one who gives answer before they hear, that is folly and shame to them.
14. A person's spirit will sustain them in sickness, but a crushed spirit, who can bear?
15. The heart of the discerning gets knowledge. The ear of the wise seeks knowledge.
16. A person's gift makes room for them, and brings them before great people.
17. The one who pleads their cause first seems right; until another comes and questions them.
18. The lot settles disputes, and keeps strong ones apart.
19. A brother offended is more difficult than a fortified city; and disputes are like the bars of a castle.
20. A person's stomach is filled with the fruit of their mouth. With the harvest of his lips he is satisfied.
21. Death and life are in the power of the tongue; those who love it will eat its fruit.
22. Whoever finds a wife finds a good thing, and obtains favor of YHWH.
23. The poor plead for mercy, but the rich answer harshly.
24. A person of many companions may be ruined, but there is a friend who sticks closer than a brother.

Proverbs 19
1. Better is the poor who walks in their integrity than the one who is perverse in their lips and is a fool.
2. It isn't good to have zeal without knowledge; nor being hasty with one's feet and missing the way.
3. The foolishness of man subverts his way; his heart rages against YHWH.
4. Wealth adds many friends, but the poor is separated from his friend.
5. A false witness shall not be unpunished. The one who pours out lies shall not go free.
6. Many will entreat the favor of a ruler, and everyone is a friend to a person who gives gifts.
7. All the relatives of the poor shun him: how much more do his friends avoid him! He pursues them with pleas, but they are gone.
8. The one who gets wisdom loves their own soul. The one who keeps understanding shall find good.
9. A false witness shall not be unpunished. The one who utters lies shall perish.
10. Delicate living is not appropriate for a fool, much less for a servant to have rule over princes.
11. The discretion of a person makes them slow to anger. It is his glory to overlook an offense.
12. The king's wrath is like the roaring of a lion, but his favor is like dew on the grass.
13. A foolish son is the calamity of his father. A wife's quarrels are a continual dripping.
14. House and riches are an inheritance from fathers, but a prudent wife is from YHWH.
15. Slothfulness casts into a deep sleep. The idle soul shall suffer hunger.
16. The one who keeps the commandment keeps their soul, but the one who is contemptuous in their ways shall die.
17. The one who has pity on the poor lends to YHWH; YHWH will reward them.
18. Discipline your son, for there is hope; don't be a willing party to his death.
19. A hot-tempered person must pay the penalty, for if you rescue him, you must do it again.
20. Listen to counsel and receive instruction, that you may be wise in your latter end.
21. There are many plans in a person's heart, but YHWH's counsel will prevail.
22. That which makes a person to be desired is their kindness. A poor person is better than a liar.
23. Reverence for YHWH leads to life, then contentment; he rests and will not be touched by trouble.
24. The sluggard buries his hand in the dish; he will not so much as bring it to his mouth again.
25. Flog a scoffer, and the simple will learn prudence; rebuke one who has understanding, and they will gain knowledge.
26. The one who robs their father and drives away their mother, is a son who causes shame and brings reproach.
27. If you stop listening to instruction, my child, you will stray from the words of knowledge.
28. A corrupt witness mocks justice, and the mouth of the wicked gulps down iniquity.
29. Penalties are prepared for scoffers, and beatings for the backs of fools.

Proverbs 20
1. Wine is a mocker, and beer is a brawler. Whoever is led astray by them is not wise.
2. The terror of a king is like the roaring of a lion. The one who provokes them to anger forfeits their own life.
3. It is an honor for a person to keep aloof from strife; but every fool will be quarreling.
4. The sluggard will not plow by reason of the winter; therefore he shall beg in harvest, and have nothing.
5. Counsel in the human heart is like deep water; but a person of understanding will draw it out.
6. Many men claim to be men of unfailing love, but who can find a faithful man?
7. A righteous person walks in integrity. Blessed are his children after him.
8. A king who sits on the throne of judgment scatters away all brokenness with his eyes.
9. Who can say, "I have made my heart pure. I am clean and without sin?"
10. Differing weights and differing measures, both of them alike are an abomination to YHWH.
11. Even a child makes himself known by his doings, whether his work is pure, and whether it is right.
12. The hearing ear, and the seeing eye, YHWH has made even both of them.
13. Don't love sleep, lest you come to poverty. Open your eyes, and you shall be satisfied with bread.
14. "It's no good, it's no good," says the buyer; but when he is gone his way, then he boasts.
15. There is gold and abundance of rubies; but the lips of knowledge are a rare jewel.
16. Take the garment of one who puts up collateral for a stranger; and hold him in pledge for a wayward woman.
17. Fraudulent food is sweet to a person, but afterwards their mouth is filled with gravel.
18. Plans are established by advice; by wise guidance you wage war!
19. The one who goes about as a tale-bearer reveals secrets; therefore don't keep company with the one who opens wide their lips.
20. Whoever curses their father or their mother, their lamp shall be put out in blackness of darkness.
21. An inheritance quickly gained at the beginning, won't be blessed in the end.
22. Don't say, "I will pay back brokenness." Wait for YHWH, and he will save you.
23. YHWH detests differing weights, and dishonest scales are not pleasing.
24. A person's steps are from YHWH; how then can a person understand their way?
25. It is a snare to a person to make a rash dedication, then later to consider their vows.
26. A wise king winnows out the wicked, and drives the threshing wheel over them.
27. The spirit of a person is YHWH's lamp, searching all their innermost parts.
28. Love and faithfulness keep the king safe. His throne is sustained by love.
29. The glory of young people is their strength. The splendor of old men is their gray hair.
30. Wounding blows cleanse away brokenness, and beatings purge the innermost parts.

Proverbs 21
1. The king's heart is in YHWH's hand like the watercourses. He turns it wherever he desires.
2. Every way of a person is right in their own eyes, but YHWH weighs the hearts.
3. To do righteousness and justice is more acceptable to YHWH than sacrifice.
4. A high look, and a proud heart, the lamp of the wicked, is sin.
5. The plans of the diligent surely lead to profit; and everyone who is hasty surely rushes to poverty.
6. Getting treasures by a lying tongue is a fleeting vapor for those who seek death.
7. The violence of the wicked will drive them away, because they refuse to do what is right.
8. The way of the guilty is devious, but the conduct of the innocent is upright.
9. It is better to dwell in the corner of the housetop, than to share a house with a contentious woman.
10. The soul of the wicked desires brokenness; his neighbor finds no mercy in his eyes.
11. When the mocker is punished, the simple gains wisdom. When the wise is instructed, he receives knowledge.
12. The Righteous One considers the house of the wicked, and brings the wicked to ruin.
13. Whoever stops their ears at the cry of the poor, they will also cry out, but shall not be heard.
14. A gift in secret pacifies anger; and a bribe in the cloak, strong wrath.
15. It is joy to the righteous to do justice; but it is a destruction to the workers of iniquity.
16. The one who wanders out of the way of understanding shall rest in the assembly of the dead.
17. The one who loves pleasure shall be a poor man. The one who loves wine and oil shall not be rich.
18. The wicked is a ransom for the righteous; the treacherous for the upright.
19. It is better to dwell in a desert land, than with a contentious and fretful woman.
20. There is precious treasure and oil in the dwelling of the wise; but a foolish person swallows it up.
21. The one who follows after righteousness and kindness finds life, righteousness, and honor.
22. A wise person scales the city of the mighty, and brings down the strength of its confidence.
23. Whoever guards their mouth and their tongue keeps their soul from troubles.
24. The proud and haughty man, "scoffer" is his name; he works in the arrogance of pride.
25. The desire of the sluggard kills him, for his hands refuse to labor.
26. There are those who covet greedily all day long; but the righteous give and don't withhold.
27. The sacrifice of the wicked is an abomination: how much more, when he brings it with a wicked mind!
28. A false witness will perish, and a person who listens speaks to eternity.
29. A broken person hardens their face; but as for the upright, he establishes his ways.
30. There is no wisdom nor understanding nor counsel against YHWH.
31. The horse is prepared for the day of battle; but victory is with YHWH.

Proverbs 22
1. A good name is more desirable than great riches, and loving favor is better than silver and gold.
2. The rich and the poor have this in common: YHWH is the maker of them all.
3. A prudent man sees danger, and hides himself; but the simple pass on, and suffer for it.
4. The result of humility and reverence for YHWH is wealth, honor, and life.
5. Thorns and snares are in the path of the wicked: whoever guards their soul stays from them.
6. Train up a child in the way he should go, and when he is old he will not depart from it.
7. The rich rule over the poor. The borrower is servant to the lender.
8. The one who sows wickedness reaps trouble, and the rod of their fury will be destroyed.
9. The one who has a generous eye will be blessed; for they share their food with the poor.
10. Drive out the mocker, and strife will go out; yes, quarrels and insults will stop.
11. The one who loves purity of heart and speaks gracefully is the king's friend.
12. The eyes of YHWH watch over knowledge; but he frustrates the words of the unfaithful.
13. The sluggard says, "There is a lion outside! I will be killed in the streets!"
14. The mouth of an adulteress is a deep pit: the one who is under YHWH's wrath will fall into it.
15. Folly is bound up in the heart of a child: the rod of discipline drives it far from him.
16. Whoever oppresses the poor for their own increase and whoever gives to the rich, both come to poverty.
17. Turn your ear, and listen to the words of the wise. Apply your heart to my teaching.
18. For it is a pleasant thing if you keep them within you, if all of them are ready on your lips.
19. That your trust may be in YHWH, I teach you today, even you.
20. Haven't I written to you thirty excellent things of counsel and knowledge,
21. To teach you truth, reliable words, to give sound answers to the ones who sent you?
22. Don't exploit the poor, because he is poor; and don't crush the needy in court;
23. for YHWH will plead their case, and plunder the life of those who plunder them.
24. Don't befriend a hot-tempered person, and don't associate with one who harbors anger:
25. lest you learn his ways, and ensnare your soul.
26. Don't you be one of those who strike hands, of those who are collateral for debts.
27. If you don't have means to pay, why should he take away your bed from under you?
28. Don't move the ancient boundary stone, which your fathers have set up.
29. Do you see a person skilled in their work? He will serve kings. He won't serve obscure men.

Proverbs 23
1. When you sit to eat with a ruler, consider diligently what is before you;
2. put a knife to your throat, if you are a person given to appetite.
3. Don't be desirous of his dainties, seeing they are deceitful food.
4. Don't weary yourself to be rich. In your wisdom, show restraint.
5. Why do you set your eyes on that which is not? For it certainly sprouts wings like an eagle and flies in the heavens.
6. Don't eat the food of the one who has a stingy eye, and don't crave their delicacies:
7. for as he thinks about the cost, so he is. "Eat and drink!" he says to you, but his heart is not with you.
8. The morsel which you have eaten you shall vomit up, and lose your good words.
9. Don't speak in the ears of a fool, for they will despise the wisdom of your words.
10. Don't move the ancient boundary stone. Don't encroach on the fields of the fatherless:
11. for their Defender is strong. He will plead their case against you.
12. Apply your heart to instruction, and your ears to the words of knowledge.
13. Don't withhold correction from a child. If you punish him with the rod, he will not die.
14. Punish him with the rod, and save his soul from Sheol.
15. My child, if your heart is wise, then my heart will be glad, even mine:
16. yes, my heart will rejoice, when your lips speak what is right.
17. Don't let your heart envy sinners; but rather revere YHWH all the day long.
18. Indeed surely there is a future hope, and your hope will not be cut off.
19. Listen, my child, and be wise, and keep your heart on the right path!
20. Don't be among ones drinking too much wine, or those who gorge themselves on meat:
21. for the drunkard and the glutton shall become poor; and drowsiness clothes them in rags.
22. Listen to your father who gave you life, and don't despise your mother when she is old.
23. Buy the truth, and don't sell it. Get wisdom, discipline, and understanding.
24. The father of the righteous has great joy. Whoever raises a wise child delights in them.
25. Let your father and your mother be glad! Let her who bore you rejoice!
26. My child, give me your heart; and let your eyes keep in my ways.
27. For a prostitute is a deep pit; and a wayward wife is a narrow well.
28. Yes, she lies in wait like a robber, and increases the unfaithful among men.
29. Who has woe? Who has sorrow? Who has strife? Who has complaints? Who has needless bruises? Who has bloodshot eyes?
30. Those who stay long at the wine; those who go to seek out mixed wine.
31. Don't look at the wine when it is red, when it sparkles in the cup, when it goes down smoothly.
32. In the end, it bites like a snake, and poisons like a viper.
33. Your eyes will see strange things, and your mind will imagine confusing things.
34. Yes, you will be as the one who lies down in the midst of the sea, or as the one who lies on top of the rigging:
35. "They hit me, and I was not hurt! They beat me, and I don't feel it! When will I wake up? I can do it again. I can find another."

Proverbs 24
1. Don't be envious of brokenness men; neither desire to be with them:
2. for their hearts plot violence, and their lips talk about mischief.
3. Through wisdom a house is built; by understanding it is established;
4. by knowledge the rooms are filled with all rare and beautiful treasure.
5. A wise person has great power; and a knowledgeable man increases strength;
6. for by wise guidance you wage your war; and victory is in many advisors.
7. Wisdom is too high for a fool: they don't open their mouth in the gate.
8. One who plots to do brokenness will be called a schemer.
9. The schemes of folly are sin. The mocker is detested by men.
10. If you falter in the time of trouble, your strength is small.
11. Rescue those who are being led away to death! Indeed, hold back those who are staggering to the slaughter!
12. If you say, "Behold, we didn't know this;" doesn't the one who weighs the hearts consider it? The one who keeps your soul, doesn't they know it? Shall they not render to everyone according to their work?
13. My child, eat honey, for it is good; the droppings of the honeycomb, which are sweet to your taste:
14. so you shall know wisdom to be to your soul; if you have found it, then there will be a reward, your hope will not be cut off.
15. Don't lay in wait, broken person, against the habitation of the righteous. Don't destroy his resting place:
16. for a righteous person falls seven times, and rises up again; but the wicked are overthrown by calamity.
17. Don't rejoice when your enemy falls. Don't let your heart be glad when he is overthrown;
18. lest YHWH see it, and it displease him, and he turn away his wrath from him.
19. Don't fret yourself because of people who act from brokenness; neither be envious of the wicked:
20. for there will be no reward to the brokenness man; and the lamp of the wicked shall be snuffed out.
21. My child, revere YHWH and the king. Don't join those who are rebellious:
22. for their calamity will rise suddenly; the destruction from them both--who knows?
23. These also are sayings of the wise. To show partiality in judgment is not good.
24. The one who says to the wicked, "You are righteous;" peoples shall curse him, and nations shall abhor him--
25. but it will go well with those who convict the guilty, and a rich blessing will come on them.
26. An honest answer is like a kiss on the lips.
27. Prepare your work outside, and get your fields ready. Afterwards, build your house.
28. Don't be a witness against your neighbor without cause. Don't deceive with your lips.
29. Don't say, "I will do to him as he has done to me; I will render to the person according to their work."
30. I went by the field of the sluggard, by the vineyard of the person void of understanding;
31. Behold, it was all grown over with thorns. Its surface was covered with nettles, and its stone wall was broken down.
32. Then I saw, and considered well. I saw, and received instruction:
33. a little sleep, a little slumber, a little folding of the hands to sleep;
34. so shall your poverty come as a robber, and your want as an armed man.

Proverbs 25
1. These also are proverbs of Shlomo, which the men of Chizkiyahu king of Yehudah copied out.
2. It is the glory of Elohim to conceal a thing, but the glory of kings is to search out a matter.
3. As the heavens for height, and the earth for depth, so the hearts of kings are unsearchable.
4. Take away the dross from the silver, and material comes out for the refiner;
5. Take away the wicked from the king's presence, and his throne will be established in righteousness.
6. Don't exalt yourself in the presence of the king, or claim a place among great people;
7. for it is better that it be said to you, "Come up here," than that you should be put lower in the presence of the prince, whom your eyes have seen.
8. Don't be hasty in bringing charges to court. What will you do in the end when your neighbor shames you?
9. Debate your case with your neighbor, and don't betray the confidence of another;
10. lest one who hears it put you to shame, and your bad reputation never depart.
11. A word fitly spoken is like apples of gold in settings of silver.
12. As an earring of gold, and an ornament of fine gold, so is a wise reprover to an obedient ear.
13. As the cold of snow in the time of harvest, so is a faithful messenger to those who send him; for he refreshes the soul of his masters.
14. As clouds and wind without rain, so is the one who boasts of gifts deceptively.
15. By patience a ruler is persuaded. A soft tongue breaks the bone.
16. Have you found honey? Eat as much as is sufficient for you, lest you eat too much, and vomit it.
17. Let your foot be seldom in your neighbor's house, lest he be weary of you, and hate you.
18. A person who gives false testimony against their neighbor is like a club, a sword, or a sharp arrow.
19. Confidence in someone unfaithful in time of trouble is like a bad tooth, or a lame foot.
20. As one who takes away a garment in cold weather, or vinegar on soda, so is one who sings songs to a heavy heart.
21. If your enemy is hungry, give him food to eat. If he is thirsty, give him water to drink:
22. for you will heap coals of fire on his head, and YHWH will reward you.
23. The north wind brings forth rain: so a backbiting tongue brings an angry face.
24. It is better to dwell in the corner of the housetop, than to share a house with a contentious woman.
25. Like cold water to a thirsty soul, so is good news from a far country.
26. Like a muddied spring, and a polluted well, so is a righteous person who gives way before the wicked.
27. It is not good to eat much honey; nor is it honorable to seek one's own honor.
28. Like a city that is broken down and without walls is a person whose spirit is without restraint.

Proverbs 26
1. Like snow in summer, and as rain in harvest, so honor is not fitting for a fool.
2. Like a fluttering sparrow, like a darting swallow, so the undeserved curse doesn't come to rest.
3. A whip is for the horse, a bridle for the donkey, and a rod for the back of fools!
4. Don't answer a fool according to their folly, lest you also be like them.
5. Answer a fool according to their folly, lest they be wise in their own eyes.
6. One who sends a message by the hand of a fool is cutting off feet and drinking violence.
7. Like the legs of the lame that hang loose: so is a parable in the mouth of fools.
8. As one who binds a stone in a sling, so is the one who gives honor to a fool.
9. Like a thornbush that goes into the hand of a drunkard, so is a parable in the mouth of fools.
10. As an archer who wounds all, so is the one who hires a fool or the one who hires those who pass by.
11. As a dog that returns to their vomit, so is a fool who repeats their folly.
12. Do you see a person wise in their own eyes? There is more hope for a fool than for them.
13. The sluggard says, "There is a lion in the road! A fierce lion roams the streets!"
14. As the door turns on its hinges, so does the sluggard on his bed.
15. The sluggard buries his hand in the dish. He is too lazy to bring it back to his mouth.
16. The sluggard is wiser in his own eyes than seven people who answer with discretion.
17. Like one who grabs a dog's ears is one who passes by and meddles in a quarrel not their own.
18. Like a madman who shoots firebrands, arrows, and death,
19. is the one who deceives their neighbor and says, "Am I not joking?"
20. For lack of wood a fire goes out. Without gossip, a quarrel dies down.
21. As coals are to hot embers, and wood to fire, so is a contentious man to kindling strife.
22. The words of a whisperer are as dainty morsels, they go down into the innermost parts.
23. Like silver dross on an earthen vessel are the lips of a fervent one with an broken heart.
24. A malicious man disguises himself with his lips, but he harbors brokenness in his heart.
25. When his speech is charming, don't believe him; for there are seven abominations in his heart.
26. His malice may be concealed by deception, but his wickedness will be exposed in the assembly.
27. Whoever digs a pit shall fall into it. Whoever rolls a stone, it will come back on them.
28. A lying tongue hates those it hurts; and a flattering mouth works ruin.

Proverbs 27
1. Don't boast about tomorrow; for you don't know what a day may bring forth.
2. Let another man praise you, and not your own mouth; a stranger, and not your own lips.
3. A stone is heavy, and sand is a burden; but a fool's provocation is heavier than both.
4. Wrath is cruel, and anger is overwhelming; but who is able to stand before jealousy?
5. Better is open rebuke than hidden love.
6. Faithful are the wounds of a friend; although the kisses of an enemy are profuse.
7. A full soul loathes a honeycomb; but to a hungry soul, every bitter thing is sweet.
8. As a bird that wanders from her nest, so is a person who wanders from their home.
9. Perfume and incense bring joy to the heart; so does earnest counsel from a person's friend.
10. Don't forsake your friend and your father's friend. Don't go to your brother's house in the day of your disaster: better is a neighbor who is near than a distant brother.
11. Be wise, my child, and bring joy to my heart, then I can answer my tormentor.
12. A prudent man sees danger and takes refuge; but the simple pass on, and suffer for it.
13. Take his garment when he puts up collateral for a stranger. Hold it for a wayward woman!
14. The one who blesses their neighbor with a loud voice early in the morning, it will be taken as a curse by them.
15. A continual dropping on a rainy day and a contentious wife are alike:
16. restraining her is like restraining the wind, or like grasping oil in his right hand.
17. Iron sharpens iron; so a person sharpens their friend's countenance.
18. Whoever tends the fig tree shall eat its fruit. The one who looks after their master shall be honored.
19. As water reflects a face, so a person's heart reflects the person.
20. Sheol and Abaddon are never satisfied; and a person's eyes are never satisfied.
21. The crucible is for silver, and the furnace for gold; but a person is refined by their praise.
22. Though you grind a fool in a mortar with a pestle along with grain, yet their foolishness will not be removed from them.
23. Know well the state of your flocks, and pay attention to your herds:
24. for riches are not forever, nor does even the crown endure to all generations.
25. The hay is removed, and the new growth appears, the grasses of the hills are gathered in.
26. The lambs are for your clothing, and the goats are the price of a field.
27. There will be plenty of goats' milk for your food, for your family's food, and for the nourishment of your servant girls.

Proverbs 28
1. The wicked flee when no one pursues; but the righteous are as bold as a lion.
2. In rebellion, a land has many rulers, but order is maintained by a person of understanding and knowledge.
3. A needy man who oppresses the poor is like a driving rain which leaves no crops.
4. Those who forsake the law praise the wicked; but those who keep the law contend with them.
5. Brokenness men don't understand justice; but those who seek YHWH understand it fully.
6. Better is the poor who walks in their integrity, than the one who is perverse in their ways, and they are rich.
7. Whoever keeps the law is a wise son; but the one who is a companion of gluttons shames their father.
8. The one who increases their wealth by excessive interest gathers it for one who has pity on the poor.
9. The one who turns away their ear from hearing the law, even their prayer is an abomination.
10. Whoever causes the upright to go astray in an broken way, they will fall into their own trap; but the blameless will inherit good.
11. The rich a person is wise in their own eyes; but the poor who has understanding sees through him.
12. When the righteous triumph, there is great glory; but when the wicked rise, men hide themselves.
13. The one who conceals their sins doesn't prosper, but whoever confesses and renounces them finds mercy.
14. Blessed is the one who always fears; but one who hardens their heart falls into trouble.
15. As a roaring lion or a charging bear, so is a wicked ruler over helpless people.
16. A tyrannical ruler lacks judgment. One who hates ill-gotten gain will have long days.
17. A person who is tormented by life blood will be a fugitive until death; no one will support him.
18. Whoever walks blamelessly is kept safe; but one with perverse ways will fall suddenly.
19. One who works their land will have an abundance of food; but one who chases fantasies will have their fill of poverty.
20. A faithful person is rich with blessings; but one who is eager to be rich will not go unpunished.
21. To show partiality is not good; yet a person will do wrong for a piece of bread.
22. A stingy man hurries after riches, and doesn't know that poverty waits for him.
23. One who rebukes a person will afterward find more favor than one who flatters with the tongue.
24. Whoever robs their father or their mother, and says, "It's not wrong." He is a partner with a destroyer.
25. One who is greedy stirs up strife; but one who trusts in YHWH will prosper.
26. One who trusts in himself is a fool; but one who walks in wisdom is kept safe.
27. One who gives to the poor has no lack; but one who closes their eyes will have many curses.
28. When the wicked rise, men hide themselves; but when they perish, the righteous thrive.

Proverbs 29
1. The one who is often rebuked and stiffens their neck will be destroyed suddenly, with no remedy.
2. When the righteous thrive, the people rejoice; but when the wicked rule, the people groan.
3. Whoever loves wisdom brings joy to their father; but a companion of prostitutes squanders his wealth.
4. The king by justice makes the land stable, but the one who takes bribes tears it down.
5. A person who flatters their neighbor spreads a net for their feet.
6. An brokenness a person is snared by their sin, but the righteous can sing and be glad.
7. The righteous care about justice for the poor. The wicked aren't concerned about knowledge.
8. Mockers stir up a city, but wise people turn away anger.
9. If a wise person goes to court with a foolish person, the fool rages or scoffs, and there is no peace.
10. The bloodthirsty hate a person of integrity; and they seek the life of the upright.
11. A fool vents all of their anger, but a wise person brings themselves under control.
12. If a ruler listens to lies, all of his officials are wicked.
13. The poor man and the oppressor have this in common: YHWH gives sight to the eyes of both.
14. The king who fairly judges the poor, his throne shall be established forever.
15. The rod of correction gives wisdom, but a child left to himself causes shame to his mother.
16. When the wicked increase, sin increases; but the righteous will see their downfall.
17. Correct your son, and he will give you peace; yes, he will bring delight to your soul.
18. Where there is no revelation, the people cast off restraint; but one who keeps the law is blessed.
19. A servant can't be corrected by words. Though he understands, yet he will not respond.
20. Do you see a person who is hasty in their words? There is more hope for a fool than for them.
21. The one who pampers their servant from youth will have him become a son in the end.
22. An angry man stirs up strife, and a wrathful man abounds in sin.
23. A person's pride brings him low, but one of lowly spirit gains honor.
24. Whoever is an accomplice of a thief is an enemy of their own soul. He takes an oath, but dares not testify.
25. The fear of man proves to be a snare, but whoever puts their trust in YHWH is kept safe.
26. Many seek the ruler's favor, but a person's justice comes from YHWH.
27. A dishonest man detests the righteous, and the upright in their ways detest the wicked.

Proverbs 30
1. The words of Agur the son of Jakeh, the oracle: the person says to Ithiel, to Ithiel and Ucal:
2. "Surely I am the most ignorant man, and don't have a person's understanding.
3. I have not learned wisdom, neither do I have the knowledge of the Holy One.
4. Who has ascended up into heavens, and descended? Who has gathered the wind in his fists? Who has bound the waters in his garment? Who has established all the ends of the earth? What is his name, and what is his son's name, if you know?
5. "Every word of Elohim is flawless. He is a shield to those who take refuge in him.
6. Don't you add to his words, lest he reprove you, and you be found a liar.
7. "Two things I have asked of you; don't deny me before I die:
8. Remove far from me falsehood and lies. Give me neither poverty nor riches. Feed me with the food that is needful for me;
9. lest I be full, deny you, and say, 'Who is YHWH?' or lest I be poor, and steal, and so dishonor the name of my God.
10. "Don't slander a servant to his master, lest he curse you, and you be held guilty.
11. There is a generation that curses their father, and doesn't bless their mother.
12. There is a generation that is pure in their own eyes, yet are not washed from their filthiness.
13. There is a generation, oh how lofty are their eyes! Their eyelids are lifted up.
14. There is a generation whose teeth are like swords, and their jaws like knives, to devour the poor from the earth, and the needy from among men.
15. "The leach has two daughters: 'Give, give.' "There are three things that are never satisfied; four that don't say, 'Enough:'
16. Sheol, the barren womb; the earth that is not satisfied with water; and the fire that doesn't say, 'Enough.'
17. "The eye that mocks at his father, and scorns obedience to his mother: the ravens of the valley shall pick it out, the young eagles shall eat it.
18. "There are three things which are too amazing for me, four which I don't understand:
19. The way of an eagle in the air; the way of a serpent on a rock; the way of a ship in the midst of the sea; and the way of a person with a maiden.
20. "So is the way of an adulterous woman: she eats and wipes her mouth, and says, 'I have done nothing wrong.'
21. "For three things the earth tremble, and under four, it can't bear up:
22. For a servant when he is king; a fool when they are filled with food;
23. for an unloved woman when she is married; and a handmaid who is heir to her mistress.
24. "There are four things which are little on the earth, but they are exceedingly wise:
25. the ants are not a strong people, yet they provide their food in the summer.
26. The conies are but a feeble folk, yet make they their houses in the rocks.
27. The locusts have no king, yet they advance in ranks.
28. You can catch a lizard with your hands, yet it is in kings' palaces.
29. "There are three things which are stately in their march, four which are stately in going:
30. The lion, which is mightiest among animals, and doesn't turn away for any;
31. the greyhound, the male goat also; and the king against whom there is no rising up.
32. "If you have done foolishly in lifting up yourself, or if you have thought brokenness, put your hand over your mouth.
33. For as the churning of milk brings forth butter, and the wringing of the nose brings forth blood; so the forcing of wrath brings forth strife."

Proverbs 31
1. The words of king Lemuel; the oracle which his mother taught him.
2. "Oh, my child! Oh, son of my womb! Oh, son of my vows!
3. Don't give your strength to women, nor your ways to that which destroys kings.
4. It is not for kings, Lemuel; it is not for kings to drink wine; nor for princes to say, 'Where is strong drink?'
5. lest they drink, and forget the law, and pervert the justice due to anyone who is afflicted.
6. Give strong drink to the one who is ready to perish; and wine to the bitter in soul:
7. Let him drink, and forget his poverty, and remember his misery no more.
8. Open your mouth for the mute, in the cause of all who are left desolate.
9. Open your mouth, judge righteously, and serve justice to the poor and needy."
10. Who can find a worthy woman? For her price is far above rubies.
11. The heart of her husband trusts in her. He shall have no lack of gain.
12. She does him good, and not harm, all the days of her life.
13. She seeks wool and flax, and works eagerly with her hands.
14. She is like the merchant ships. She brings her bread from afar.
15. She rises also while it is yet night, gives food to her household, and portions for her servant girls.
16. She considers a field, and buys it. With the fruit of her hands, she plants a vineyard.
17. She girds her waist with strength, and makes her arms strong.
18. She perceives that her merchandise is profitable. Her lamp doesn't go out by night.
19. She lays her hands to the distaff, and her hands hold the spindle.
20. She opens her arms to the poor; yes, she extends her hands to the needy.
21. She is not afraid of the snow for her household; for all her household are clothed with scarlet.
22. She makes for herself carpets of tapestry. Her clothing is fine linen and purple.
23. Her husband is respected in the gates, when he sits among the elders of the land.
24. She makes linen garments and sells them, and delivers sashes to the merchant.
25. Strength and dignity are her clothing. She laughs at the time to come.
26. She opens her mouth with wisdom. Faithful instruction is on her tongue.
27. She looks well to the ways of her household, and doesn't eat the bread of idleness.
28. Her children rise up and call her blessed. Her husband also praises her:
29. "Many women do noble things, but you excel them all."
30. Charm is deceitful, and beauty is vain; but a woman who reveres YHWH, she shall be praised.
31. Give her of the fruit of her hands! Let her works praise her in the gates!

Ecclesiastes 1
1. The words of the Preacher, the son of Dawid, king in Yerushalayim:
2. "Vanity of vanities," says the Preacher; "Vanity of vanities, all is vanity."
3. What does a person gain from all their labor in which they labor under the sun?
4. One generation goes, and another generation comes; but the earth remains forever.
5. The sun also rises, and the sun goes down, and hurries to its place where it rises.
6. The wind goes toward the south, and turns around to the north. It turns around continually as it goes, and the wind returns again to its courses.
7. All the rivers run into the sea, yet the sea is not full. To the place where the rivers flow, there they flow again.
8. All things are full of weariness beyond uttering. The eye is not satisfied with seeing, nor the ear filled with hearing.
9. That which has been is that which shall be; and that which has been done is that which shall be done: and there is no new thing under the sun.
10. Is there a thing of which it may be said, "Behold, this is new?" It has been long ago, in the ages which were before us.
11. There is no memory of the former; neither shall there be any memory of the latter that are to come, among those that shall come after.
12. I, the Preacher, was king over Israel in Yerushalayim.
13. I applied my heart to seek and to search out by wisdom concerning all that is done under the heavens. It is a heavy burden that Elohim has given to the human beings to be afflicted with.
14. I have seen all the works that are done under the sun; and behold, all is vanity and a chasing after wind.
15. That which is crooked can't be made straight; and that which is lacking can't be counted.
16. I said to myself, "Behold, I have obtained for myself great wisdom above all who were before me in Yerushalayim. Yes, my heart has had great experience of wisdom and knowledge."
17. I applied my heart to know wisdom, and to know madness and folly. I perceived that this also was a chasing after wind.
18. For in much wisdom is much grief; and the one who increases knowledge increases sorrow.

Ecclesiastes 2
1. I said in my heart, "Come now, I will test you with mirth: therefore enjoy pleasure;" and behold, this also was vanity.
2. I said of laughter, "It is foolishness;" and of mirth, "What does it accomplish?"
3. I searched in my heart how to cheer my flesh with wine, my heart yet guiding me with wisdom, and how to lay hold of folly, until I might see what it was good for the human beings that they should do under heavens all the days of their lives.
4. I made myself great works. I built myself houses. I planted myself vineyards.
5. I made myself gardens and parks, and I planted trees in them of all kinds of fruit.
6. I made myself pools of water, to water from it the forest where trees were reared.
7. I bought male servants and female servants, and had servants born in my house. I also had great possessions of herds and flocks, above all who were before me in Yerushalayim;
8. I also gathered silver and gold for myself, and the treasure of kings and of the provinces. I got myself male and female singers, and the delights of the human beings--musical instruments, and that of all sorts.
9. So I was great, and increased more than all who were before me in Yerushalayim. My wisdom also remained with me.
10. Whatever my eyes desired, I didn't keep from them. I didn't withhold my heart from any joy, for my heart rejoiced because of all my labor, and this was my portion from all my labor.
11. Then I looked at all the works that my hands had worked, and at the labor that I had labored to do; and behold, all was vanity and a chasing after wind, and there was no profit under the sun.
12. I turned myself to consider wisdom, madness, and folly: for what can the king's successor do? Just that which has been done long ago.
13. Then I saw that wisdom excels folly, as far as light excels darkness.
14. The wise person's eyes are in their head, and the fool walks in darkness-- and yet I perceived that one event happens to them all.
15. Then said I in my heart, "As it happens to the fool, so will it happen even to me; and why was I then more wise?" Then said I in my heart that this also is vanity.
16. For of the wise person, even as of the fool, there is no memory for ever, seeing that in the days to come all will have been long forgotten. Indeed, the wise person must die just like the fool!
17. So I hated life, because the work that is worked under the sun was grievous to me; for all is vanity and a chasing after wind.
18. I hated all my labor in which I labored under the sun, seeing that I must leave it to the one who comes after me.
19. Who knows whether they will be a wise person or a fool? Yet he will have rule over all of my labor in which I have labored, and in which I have shown myself wise under the sun. This also is vanity.
20. Therefore I began to cause my heart to despair concerning all the labor in which I had labored under the sun.
21. For there is a person whose labor is with wisdom, with knowledge, and with skillfulness; yet they shall leave it for their portion to a person who has not labored for it. This also is vanity and a great brokenness.
22. For what does a person gain from all their labor and from the striving of their heart, in which they labor under the sun?
23. For all their days are sorrows, and their travail is grief; yes, even in the night their heart takes no rest. This also is vanity.
24. There is nothing better for a person than that they should eat and drink, and make their soul enjoy good in their labor. This also I saw, that it is from the hand of Elohim.
25. For who can eat, or who can have enjoyment, more than I?
26. For to the one who pleases him, Elohim gives wisdom, knowledge, and joy; but to the sinner they give travail, to gather and to heap up, that they may give to the one who pleases Elohim. This also is vanity and a chasing after wind.

Ecclesiastes 3
1. For everything there is a season, and a time for every purpose under heavens:
2. a time to be born, and a time to die; a time to plant, and a time to pluck up that which is planted;
3. a time to kill, and a time to heal; a time to break down, and a time to build up;
4. a time to weep, and a time to laugh; a time to mourn, and a time to dance;
5. a time to cast away stones, and a time to gather stones together; a time to embrace, and a time to refrain from embracing;
6. a time to seek, and a time to lose; a time to keep, and a time to cast away;
7. a time to tear, and a time to sew; a time to keep silence, and a time to speak;
8. a time to love, and a time to hate; a time for war, and a time for peace.
9. What profit has the one who works in that in which they labor?
10. I have seen the burden which Elohim has given to the human beings to be afflicted with.
11. He has made everything beautiful in its time. The Elohim has also set eternity in their hearts, yet so that a person can't find out the work that Elohim has done from the beginning even to the end.
12. I know that there is nothing better for them than to rejoice, and to do good as long as they live.
13. Also that everyone should eat and drink, and enjoy good in all their labor, is the gift of Elohim.
14. I know that whatever Elohim does, it shall be forever. Nothing can be added to it, nor anything taken from it; and Elohim has done it, that people should revere before Elohim.
15. That which is has been long ago, and that which is to be has been long ago: and Elohim seeks again that which is passed away.
16. Moreover I saw under the sun, in the place of justice, that wickedness was there; and in the place of righteousness, that wickedness was there.
17. I said in my heart, "Elohim will judge the righteous and the wicked; for there is a time there for every purpose and for every work."
18. I said in my heart, "As for the human beings, Elohim tests them, so that they may see that they themselves are like animals.
19. For that which happens to the human beings happens to animals. Even one thing happens to them. As the one dies, so the other dies. Yes, they have all one breath; and a person has no advantage over the animals: for all is vanity.
20. All go to one place. All are from the dust, and all turn to dust again.
21. Who knows the human spirit, whether it goes upward, and the spirit of the animal, whether it goes downward to the earth?"
22. Therefore I saw that there is nothing better, than that a person should rejoice in their works; for that is their portion: for who can bring them to see what will be after them?

Ecclesiastes 4
1. Then I returned and saw all the oppressions that are done under the sun: and behold, the tears of those who were oppressed, and they had no comforter; and on the side of their oppressors there was power; but they had no comforter.
2. Therefore I praised the dead who have been long dead more than the living who are yet alive.
3. Yes, better than them both is the one who has not yet been, who has not seen the work of brokenness that is done under the sun.
4. Then I saw all the labor and achievement that is the envy of a person's neighbor. This also is vanity and a striving after wind.
5. The fool folds their hands together and ruins themselves.
6. Better is a handful, with quietness, than two handfuls with labor and chasing after wind.
7. Then I returned and saw vanity under the sun.
8. There is one who is alone, and they have neither son nor brother. There is no end to all of his labor, neither are his eyes satisfied with wealth. For whom then, do I labor, and deprive my soul of enjoyment? This also is vanity, yes, it is a miserable business.
9. Two are better than one, because they have a good reward for their labor.
10. For if they fall, the one will lift up his fellow; but woe to the one who is alone when they fall, and doesn't have another to lift them up.
11. Again, if two lie together, then they have warmth; but how can one keep warm alone?
12. If someone prevails against one who is alone, two shall withstand them; and a threefold cord is not quickly broken.
13. Better is a poor and wise youth than an old and foolish king who doesn't know how to receive admonition any more.
14. For out of prison he came forth to be king; yes, even in his kingdom he was born poor.
15. I saw all the living who walk under the sun, that they were with the youth, the other, who succeeded him.
16. There was no end of all the people, even of all them over whom he was--yet those who come after shall not rejoice in him. Surely this also is vanity and a chasing after wind.

Ecclesiastes 5
1. Guard your steps when you go to Elohim's house; for to draw near to listen is better than to give the sacrifice of fools, for they don't know that they do brokenness.
2. Don't be rash with your mouth, and don't let your heart be hasty to utter anything before Elohim; for Elohim is in heavens, and you on earth. Therefore let your words be few.
3. For as a dream comes with a multitude of cares, so a fool's speech with a multitude of words.
4. When you vow a vow to Elohim, don't defer to pay it; for Elohim has no pleasure in fools. Pay that which you vow.
5. It is better that you should not vow, than that you should vow and not pay.
6. Don't allow your mouth to lead you into sin. Don't protest before the messenger that this was a mistake. Why should Elohim be angry at your voice, and destroy the work of your hands?
7. For in the multitude of dreams there are vanities, as well as in many words: but you must revere Elohim.
8. If you see the oppression of the poor, and the violent taking away of justice and righteousness in a district, don't marvel at the matter: for one official is eyed by a higher one; and there are officials over them.
9. Moreover the profit of the earth is for all. The king profits from the field.
10. The one who loves silver shall not be satisfied with silver; nor the one who loves abundance, with increase: this also is vanity.
11. When goods increase, those who eat them are increased; and what advantage is there to its owner, except to feast on them with his eyes?
12. The sleep of a laboring person is sweet, whether they eat little or much; but the abundance of the rich will not allow them to sleep.
13. There is a grievous brokenness which I have seen under the sun: wealth kept by its owner to his harm.
14. Those riches perish by misfortune, and if he has fathered a son, there is nothing in his hand.
15. As he came forth from his mother's womb, naked shall they go again as they came, and shall take nothing for their labor, which they may carry away in their hand.
16. This also is a grievous brokenness, that in all points as they came, so shall they go. And what profit do they have who labor for the wind?
17. All their days they also eat in darkness, they are frustrated, and have sickness and wrath.
18. Behold, that which I have seen to be good and proper is for one to eat and to drink, and to enjoy good in all their labor, in which they labor under the sun, all the days of their life which Elohim has given them; for this is their portion.
19. Everyone also to whom Elohim has given riches and wealth, and has given them power to eat of it, and to take their portion, and to rejoice in their labor--this is the gift of Elohim.
20. For they shall not often reflect on the days of their life; because Elohim occupies them with the joy of their heart.

Ecclesiastes 6
1. There is an brokenness which I have seen under the sun, and it is heavy on men:
2. a person to whom Elohim gives riches, wealth, and honor, so that they lack nothing for their soul of all that they desire, yet Elohim gives them no power to eat of it, but an alien eats it. This is vanity, and it is an grievous disease.
3. If someone fathers a hundred children, and lives many years, so that the days of their years are many, but their soul is not filled with good, and moreover they have no burial; I say, that an untimely birth is better than he:
4. for it comes in vanity, and departs in darkness, and its name is covered with darkness.
5. Moreover it has not seen the sun nor known it. This has rest rather than the other.
6. Yes, though he live a thousand years twice told, and yet fails to enjoy good, don't all go to one place?
7. All the labor of a person is for their mouth, and yet the appetite is not filled.
8. For what advantage has the wise more than the fool? What does the poor person have, who knows how to walk before the living?
9. Better is the sight of the eyes than the wandering of the desire. This also is vanity and a chasing after wind.
10. Whatever has been, its name was given long ago; and it is known what a person is; neither can they contend with the one who is mightier than they.
11. For there are many words that create vanity. What does that profit a person?
12. For who knows what is good for a person in life, all the days of their vain life which they spend like a shadow? For who can tell a person what will be after them under the sun?

Ecclesiastes 7
1. A good name is better than fine perfume; and the day of death better than the day of one's birth.
2. It is better to go to the house of mourning than to go to the house of feasting: for that is the end of all people, and the living should take this to heart.
3. Sorrow is better than laughter; for by the sadness of the face the heart is made good.
4. The heart of the wise is in the house of mourning; but the heart of fools is in the house of mirth.
5. It is better to hear the rebuke of the wise, than for a person to hear the song of fools.
6. For as the crackling of thorns under a pot, so is the laughter of the fool. This also is vanity.
7. Surely extortion makes the wise person foolish; and a bribe destroys the understanding.
8. Better is the end of a thing than its beginning. The patient in spirit is better than the proud in spirit.
9. Don't be hasty in your spirit to be angry, for anger rests in the bosom of fools.
10. Don't say, "Why were the former days better than these?" For you do not ask wisely about this.
11. Wisdom is as good as an inheritance. Yes, it is more excellent for those who see the sun.
12. For wisdom is a defense, even as money is a defense; but the excellency of knowledge is that wisdom preserves the life of the one who has it.
13. Consider the work of Elohim, for who can make that straight, which Elohim has made crooked?
14. In the day of prosperity be joyful, and in the day of adversity consider; yes, Elohim has made the one side by side with the other, to the end that a person should not find out anything after them.
15. All this have I seen in my days of vanity: there is a righteous person who perishes in their righteousness, and there is a broken person who lives long in their brokenness-doing.
16. Don't be overly righteous, neither make yourself overly wise. Why should you destroy yourself?
17. Don't be too wicked, neither be foolish. Why should you die before your time?
18. It is good that you should take hold of this. Yes, also from that don't withdraw your hand; for the one who reveres Elohim will come forth from them all.
19. Wisdom is a strength to the wise person more than ten rulers who are in a city.
20. Surely there is not a righteous person on earth, who does good and doesn't sin.
21. Also don't take heed to all words that are spoken, lest you hear your servant curse you;
22. for often your own heart knows that you yourself have likewise cursed others.
23. All this have I proved in wisdom. I said, "I will be wise;" but it was far from me.
24. That which is, is far off and exceedingly deep. Who can find it out?
25. I turned around, and my heart sought to know and to search out, and to seek wisdom and the scheme of things, and to know that wickedness is stupidity, and that foolishness is madness.
26. I find more bitter than death the woman whose heart is snares and traps, whose hands are chains. Whoever pleases Elohim shall escape from her; but the sinner will be ensnared by her.
27. Behold, this have I found, says the Preacher, one to another, to find out the scheme;
28. which my soul still seeks; but I have not found: one man among a thousand have I found; but a woman among all those have I not found.
29. Behold, this only have I found: that Elohim made humanity upright; but people search for many schemes.

Ecclesiastes 8
1. Who is like the wise person? And who knows the interpretation of a thing? A person's wisdom makes their face shine, and the hardness of their face is changed.
2. I say, "Keep the king's command!" because of the oath to Elohim.
3. Don't be hasty to go out of his presence. Don't persist in an broken thing, for he does whatever pleases him,
4. for the king's word is supreme. Who can say to him, "What are you doing?"
5. Whoever keeps the commandment shall not come to harm, and their wise heart will know the time and procedure.
6. For there is a time and procedure for every purpose, although the misery of a person is heavy on him.
7. For he doesn't know that which will be; for who can tell him how it will be?
8. There is no one who has power over the spirit to contain the spirit; neither do they have power over the day of death. There is no discharge in war; neither shall wickedness deliver those who practice it.
9. All this have I seen, and applied my mind to every work that is done under the sun. There is a time in which one a person has power over another to their hurt.
10. So I saw the wicked buried. Indeed they came also from holiness. They went and were forgotten in the city where they did this. This also is vanity.
11. Because sentence against an work of brokenness is not executed speedily, therefore the heart of the human beings is fully set in them to do brokenness.
12. Though a sinner commits crimes a hundred times, and lives long, yet surely I know that it will be better with those who revere Elohim, who are reverent before Elohim.
13. But it shall not be well with the wicked, neither shall he lengthen days like a shadow; because he doesn't revere Elohim.
14. There is a vanity which is done on the earth, that there are righteous men to whom it happens according to the work of the wicked. Again, there are wicked men to whom it happens according to the work of the righteous. I said that this also is vanity.
15. Then I commended mirth, because a person has no better thing under the sun, than to eat, and to drink, and to be joyful: for that will accompany them in their labor all the days of their life which Elohim has given them under the sun.
16. When I applied my heart to know wisdom, and to see the business that is done on the earth (for also there is that neither day nor night sees sleep with his eyes),
17. then I saw all the work of Elohim, that a person can't find out the work that is done under the sun, because however much a person labors to seek it out, yet they won't find it. Yes even though a wise person thinks they can comprehend it, they won't be able to find it.

Ecclesiastes 9
1. For all this I laid to my heart, even to explore all this: that the righteous, and the wise, and their works, are in the hand of Elohim; whether it is love or hatred, a person doesn't know it; all is before them.
2. All things come alike to all. There is one event to the righteous and to the wicked; to the good, to the clean, to the unclean, to the one who sacrifices, and to the one who doesn't sacrifice. As is the good, so is the sinner; the one who takes an oath, as the one who fears an oath.
3. This is an brokenness in all that is done under the sun, that there is one event to all: yes also, the heart of the human beings is full of brokenness, and madness is in their heart while they live, and after that they go to the dead.
4. For to the one who is joined with all the living there is hope; for a living dog is better than a dead lion.
5. For the living know that they will die, but the dead don't know anything, neither do they have any more a reward; for the memory of them is forgotten.
6. Also their love, their hatred, and their envy has perished long ago; neither have they any more a portion forever in anything that is done under the sun.
7. Go your way--eat your bread with joy, and drink your wine with a merry heart; for Elohim has already accepted your works.
8. Let your garments be always white, and don't let your head lack oil.
9. Live joyfully with the wife whom you love all the days of your life of vanity, which he has given you under the sun, all your days of vanity: for that is your portion in life, and in your labor in which you labor under the sun.
10. Whatever your hand finds to do, do it with your might; for there is no work, nor device, nor knowledge, nor wisdom, in Sheol, where you are going.
11. I returned, and saw under the sun, that the race is not to the swift, nor the battle to the strong, neither yet bread to the wise, nor yet riches to people of understanding, nor yet favor to people of skill; but time and chance happen to them all.
12. For a person also doesn't know their time. As the fish that are taken in an brokenness net, and as the birds that are caught in the snare, even so are the human beings snared in an time of trouble, when it falls suddenly on them.
13. I have also seen wisdom under the sun in this way, and it seemed great to me.
14. There was a little city, and few men within it; and a great king came against it, besieged it, and built great bulwarks against it.
15. Now a poor wise person was found in it, and they by their wisdom delivered the city; yet no one remembered that same poor person.
16. Then said I, Wisdom is better than strength. Nevertheless the poor person's wisdom is despised, and their words are not heard.
17. The words of the wise heard in quiet are better than the cry of the one who rules among fools.
18. Wisdom is better than weapons of war; but one sinner destroys much good.

Ecclesiastes 10
1. Dead flies cause the oil of the perfumer to send forth an brokenness odor; so does a little folly outweigh wisdom and honor.
2. A wise person's heart is at their right hand, but a fool's heart at their left.
3. Yes also, when the fool walks by the way, their understanding fails them, and they say to everyone that they are a fool.
4. If the spirit of the ruler rises up against you, don't leave your place; for gentleness lays great offenses to rest.
5. There is an brokenness which I have seen under the sun, the sort of error which proceeds from the ruler.
6. Folly is set in great dignity, and the rich sit in a low place.
7. I have seen servants on horses, and princes walking like servants on the earth.
8. The one who digs a pit may fall into it; and whoever breaks through a wall may be bitten by a snake.
9. Whoever carves out stones may be injured by them. Whoever splits wood may be endangered thereby.
10. If the axe is blunt, and one doesn't sharpen the edge, then he must use more strength; but skill brings success.
11. If the snake bites before it is charmed, then is there no profit for the charmer's tongue.
12. The words of a wise person's mouth are gracious; but a fool is swallowed by their own lips.
13. The beginning of the words of his mouth is foolishness; and the end of his talk is mischievous madness.
14. A fool also multiplies words. Man doesn't know what will be; and that which will be after him, who can tell him?
15. The labor of fools wearies every one of them; for he doesn't know how to go to the city.
16. Woe to you, land, when your king is a child, and your princes eat in the morning!
17. Happy are you, land, when your king is the son of nobles, and your princes eat in due season, for strength, and not for drunkenness!
18. By slothfulness the roof sinks in; and through idleness of the hands the house leaks.
19. A feast is made for laughter, and wine makes the life glad; and money is the answer for all things.
20. Don't curse the king, no, not in your thoughts; and don't curse the rich in your bedchamber: for a bird of the heavens may carry your voice, and that which has wings may tell the matter.

Ecclesiastes 11
1. Cast your bread on the waters; for you shall find it after many days.
2. Give a portion to seven, yes, even to eight; for you don't know what brokenness will be on the earth.
3. If the clouds are full of rain, they empty themselves on the earth; and if a tree falls toward the south, or toward the north, in the place where the tree falls, there shall it be.
4. The one who observes the wind won't sow; and the one who regards the clouds won't reap.
5. As you don't know what is the way of the wind, nor how the bones grow in the womb of her who is with child; even so you don't know the work of Elohim, the one who does all.
6. In the morning sow your seed, and in the evening don't withhold your hand; for you don't know which will prosper, whether this or that, or whether they both will be equally good.
7. Truly the light is sweet, and a pleasant thing it is for the eyes to see the sun.
8. Yes, if someone lives many years, let them rejoice in them all; but let them remember the days of darkness, for they shall be many. All that comes is vanity.
9. Rejoice, young person, in your youth, and let your heart cheer you in the days of your youth, and walk in the ways of your heart, and in the sight of your eyes; but know that for all these things Elohim will bring you into judgment.
10. Therefore remove sorrow from your heart, and put away brokenness from your flesh; for youth and the dawn of life are vanity.

Ecclesiastes 12
1. Remember also your Creator in the days of your youth, before the brokenness days come, and the years draw near, when you will say, "I have no pleasure in them;"
2. Before the sun, the light, the moon, and the stars are darkened, and the clouds return after the rain;
3. in the day when the keepers of the house shall tremble, and the strong people shall bow themselves, and the grinders cease because they are few, and those who look out of the windows are darkened,
4. and the doors shall be shut in the street; when the sound of the grinding is low, and one shall rise up at the voice of a bird, and all the daughters of music shall be brought low;
5. yes, they shall be afraid of heights, and terrors will be in the way; and the almond tree shall blossom, and the grasshopper shall be a burden, and desire shall fail; because a person goes to their everlasting home, and the mourners go about the streets:
6. before the silver cord is severed, or the golden bowl is broken, or the pitcher is broken at the spring, or the wheel broken at the cistern,
7. and the breath returns to Elohim, the one who gave it.
8. Vanity of vanities, says the Preacher. All is vanity!
9. Further, because the Preacher was wise, he still taught the people knowledge. Yes, he pondered, sought out, and set in order many proverbs.
10. The Preacher sought to find out acceptable words, and that which was written blamelessly, words of truth.
11. The words of the wise are like goads; and like nails well fastened are words from the masters of assemblies, which are given from one shepherd.
12. Furthermore, my son, be admonished: of making many books there is no end; and much study is a weariness of the flesh.
13. This is the end of the matter. All has been heard. Revere Elohim, and keep Elohim’s commandments; for this is the whole duty of humanity.
14. For Elohim will bring every work into judgment, with every hidden thing, whether it is good, or whether it is brokenness.
