1 Chronicles - Chapter 13

1. David consulted with the captains of thousands and of hundreds, even with every leader.
2. David said to all the assembly of Israel, If it seem good to you, and if it be of YHWH our Elohim, let us send abroad everywhere to our brothers who are left in all the land of Israel, with whom the priests and Levites are in their cities that have suburbs, that they may gather themselves to us;
3. and let us bring again the ark of our Elohim to us: for we didn't seek it in the days of Saul.
4. All the assembly said that they would do so; for the thing was right in the eyes of all the people.
5. So David assembled all Israel together, from the Shihor [the brook] of Egypt even to the entrance of Hamath, to bring the ark of Elohim from Kiriath Jearim.
6. David went up, and all Israel, to Baalah, [that is], to Kiriath Jearim, which belonged to Judah, to bring up from there the ark of Elohim YHWH that sits [above] the cherubim, that is called by the Name.
7. They carried the ark of Elohim on a new cart, [and brought it] out of the house of Abinadab: and Uzza and Ahio drove the cart.
8. David and all Israel played before Elohim with all their might, even with songs, and with harps, and with stringed instruments, and with tambourines, and with cymbals, and with trumpets.
9. When they came to the threshing floor of Chidon, Uzza put forth his hand to hold the ark; for the oxen stumbled.
10. The anger of YHWH was kindled against Uzza, and he struck him, because he put forth his hand to the ark; and there he died before Elohim.
11. David was displeased, because YHWH had broken forth on Uzza; and he called that place Perez Uzza, to this day.
12. David was afraid of Elohim that day, saying, How shall I bring the ark of Elohim home to me?
13. So David didn't move the ark to him into the city of David, but carried it aside into the house of Obed-Edom the Gittite.
14. The ark of Elohim remained with the family of Obed-Edom in his house three months: and YHWH blessed the house of Obed-Edom, and all that he had.