Deuteronomy - Chapter 10

1. At that time YHWH said to me, Hew you two tables of stone like the first, and come up to me onto the mountain, and make an ark of wood.
2. I will write on the tables the words that were on the first tables which you broke, and you shall put them in the ark.
3. So I made an ark of acacia wood, and hewed two tables of stone like the first, and went up onto the mountain, having the two tables in my hand.
4. He wrote on the tables, according to the first writing, the ten commandments, which YHWH spoke to you on the mountain out of the midst of the fire in the day of the assembly: and YHWH gave them to me.
5. I turned and came down from the mountain, and put the tables in the ark which I had made; and there they are as YHWH commanded me.
6. (The children of Israel traveled from Beeroth Bene Jaakan to Moserah. There Aaron died, and there he was buried; and Eleazar his son ministered in the priest's office in his place.
7. From there they traveled to Gudgodah; and from Gudgodah to Jotbathah, a land of brooks of water.
8. At that time YHWH set apart the tribe of Levi, to bear the ark of the covenant of YHWH, to stand before YHWH to minister to him, and to bless in his name, to this day.
9. Therefore Levi has no portion nor inheritance with his brothers; YHWH is his inheritance, according as YHWH your Elohim spoke to him.)
10. I stayed on the mountain, as at the first time, forty days and forty nights: and YHWH listened to me that time also; YHWH would not destroy you.
11. YHWH said to me, Arise, take your journey before the people; and they shall go in and possess the land, which I swore to their fathers to give to them.
12. Now, Israel, what does YHWH your Elohim require of you, but to fear YHWH your Elohim, to walk in all his ways, and to love him, and to serve YHWH your Elohim with all your heart and with all your soul,
13. to keep the commandments of YHWH, and his statutes, which I command you this day for your good?
14. Behold, to YHWH your Elohim belongs heavens and the heavens of heavens, the earth, with all that is therein.
15. Only YHWH had a delight in your fathers to love them, and he chose their seed after them, even you above all peoples, as at this day.
16. Circumcise therefore the foreskin of your heart, and be no more stiff-necked.
17. For YHWH your Elohim, he is Elohim of gods, and Lord of lords, the great Elohim, the mighty, and the awesome, who doesn't regard persons, nor takes reward.
18. He does execute justice for the fatherless and widow, and loves the foreigner, in giving him food and clothing.
19. Therefore love the foreigner; for you were foreigners in the land of Egypt.
20. You shall fear YHWH your Elohim; him shall you serve; and to him shall you cleave, and by his name shall you swear.
21. He is your praise, and he is your Elohim, who has done for you these great and awesome things, which your eyes have seen.
22. Your fathers went down into Egypt with seventy persons; and now YHWH your Elohim has made you as the stars of the heavens for multitude.