Mark - Chapter 1

1. The beginning of the good news of Yeshua the Messiah, the Son of Elohim.
2. As it is written in the prophets, "Behold, I send my messenger before your face, who will prepare your way before you.
3. The voice of one crying in the wilderness, 'Make ready the way of the Lord! Make his paths straight!'"
4. Yohanan came immersing in the wilderness and preaching the immersion of turning back for forgiveness of sins.
5. All the country of Judea and all those of Jerusalem went out to him. They were immersed by him in the Jordan river, confessing their sins.
6. Yohanan was clothed with camel's hair and a leather belt around his waist. He ate locusts and wild honey.
7. He preached, saying, "After me comes he who is mightier than I, the thong of whose sandals I am not worthy to stoop down and loosen.
8. I immersed you in water, but he will immerse you in the holy Ruach."
9. It happened in those days, that Yeshua came from Nazareth of Galilee, and was immersed by Yohanan in the Jordan.
10. Immediately coming up from the water, he saw the heavens parting, and the Spirit descending on him like a dove.
11. A voice came out of the sky, "You are my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased."
12. Immediately the Spirit drove him out into the wilderness.
13. He was there in the wilderness forty days tempted by Satan. He was with the wild animals; and the angels were serving him.
14. Now after Yohanan was taken into custody, Yeshua came into Galilee, preaching the good news of the reign of Elohim,
15. and saying, "The time is fulfilled, and the reign of Elohim has drawn near! Turn back, and trust in the good news."
16. Passing along by the sea of Galilee, he saw Simon and Andrew the brother of Simon casting a net into the sea, for they were fishermen.
17. Yeshua said to them, "Come after me, and I will make you into fishers for men."
18. Immediately they left their nets, and followed him.
19. Going on a little further from there, he saw Yaakov the son of Zebedee, and Yohanan, his brother, who were also in the boat mending the nets.
20. Immediately he called them, and they left their father, Zebedee, in the boat with the hired servants, and went after him.
21. They went into Capernaum, and immediately on the Sabbath day he entered into the synagogue and taught.
22. They were astonished at his teaching, for he taught them as having authority, and not as the scribes.
23. Immediately there was in their synagogue a man with an unclean spirit, and he cried out,
24. saying, "Ha! What do we have to do with you, Yeshua, you Nazarene? Have you come to destroy us? I know you who you are: the Holy One of Elohim!"
25. Yeshua rebuked him, saying, "Be quiet, and come out of him!"
26. The unclean spirit, convulsing him and crying with a loud voice, came out of him.
27. They were all amazed, so that they questioned among themselves, saying, "What is this? A new teaching? For with authority he commands even the unclean spirits, and they obey him!"
28. The report of him went out immediately everywhere into all the region of Galilee and its surrounding area.
29. Immediately, when they had come out of the synagogue, they came into the house of Simon and Andrew, with Yaakov and Yohanan.
30. Now Simon's wife's mother lay sick with a fever, and immediately they told him about her.
31. He came and took her by the hand, and raised her up. The fever left her, and she served them.
32. At evening, when the sun had set, they brought to him all who were sick, and those who were possessed by demons.
33. All the city was gathered together at the door.
34. He healed many who were sick with various diseases, and cast out many demons. He didn't allow the demons to speak, because they knew him.
35. Early in the morning, while it was still dark, he rose up and went out, and departed into a deserted place, and prayed there.
36. Simon and those who were with him followed after him;
37. and they found him, and told him, "Everyone is looking for you."
38. He said to them, "Let's go elsewhere into the next towns, that I may preach there also, because I came out for this reason."
39. He went into their synagogues throughout all Galilee, preaching and casting out demons.
40. A leper came to him, begging him, kneeling down to him, and saying to him, "If you want to, you can make me clean."
41. Being moved with compassion, he stretched out his hand, and touched him, and said to him, "I want to. Be made clean."
42. When he had said this, immediately the leprosy departed from him, and he was made clean.
43. He strictly warned him, and immediately sent him out,
44. and said to him, "See you say nothing to anybody, but go show yourself to the priest, and offer for your cleansing the things which Moses commanded, for a testimony to them."
45. But he went out, and began to proclaim it much, and to spread about the matter, so that Yeshua could no more openly enter into a city, but was outside in desert places: and they came to him from everywhere.