Genesis - Chapter 35

1. Elohim said to Yaakov, “Arise, go up to Bethel, and live there. Make there an altar to Elohim, who appeared to you when you fled from the face of Esav your brother.”
2. Then Yaakov said to his household, and to all who were with him, “Put away the foreign gods that are among you, purify yourselves, and change your garments.
3. Let’s arise, and go up to Bethel. I will make there an altar to Elohim, who answered me in the day of my distress, and was with me on the way which I went.”
4. They gave to Yaakov all the foreign gods which were in their hands, and the rings which were in their ears; and Yaakov hid them under the oak which was by Shechem.
5. They traveled, and a terror of Elohim was on the cities that were around them, and they didn’t pursue the sons of Yaakov.
6. So Yaakov came to Luz (that is, Bethel), which is in the land of Canaan, he and all the people who were with him.
7. He built an altar there, and called the place El Beth El; because there Elohim was revealed to him, when he fled from the face of his brother.
8. Deborah, Rivqah’s nurse, died, and she was buried below Bethel under the oak; and its name was called Allon Bacuth.
9. Elohim appeared to Yaakov again, when he came from Paddan Aram, and blessed him.
10. Elohim said to him, “Your name is Yaakov. Your name shall no longer be called Yaakov, but Yisrael shall be your name.” So he called his name Yisrael.
11. Elohim said to him, “I am Elohim Almighty. Be fruitful and multiply. A nation and a company of nations will be from you, and kings will come out of your body.
12. The land which I gave to Avraham and Yitzhak, I will give it to you, and to your offspring after you I will give the land.”
13. Elohim went up from him in the place where he spoke with him.
14. Yaakov set up a pillar in the place where he spoke with him, a pillar of stone. He poured out a drink offering on it, and poured oil on it.
15. Yaakov called the name of the place where Elohim spoke with him “Bethel”.
16. They traveled from Bethel. There was still some distance to come to Ephrath, and Rakhel travailed. She had hard labor.
17. When she was in hard labor, the midwife said to her, “Don’t be afraid, for now you will have another son.”
18. As her being was departing (for she died), she named him Benoni, but his father named him Binyamin.
19. Rakhel died, and was buried on the way to Ephrath (also called Bethlehem).
20. Yaakov set up a pillar on her grave. The same is the Pillar of Rakhel’s grave to this day.
21. Yisrael traveled, and spread his tent beyond the tower of Eder.
22. While Yisrael lived in that land, Reuven went and lay with Bilhah, his father’s concubine, and Yisrael heard of it. Now the sons of Yaakov were twelve.
23. The sons of Leah: Reuven (Yaakov’s firstborn), Shimon, Levi, Yehudah, Issachar, and Zebulun.
24. The sons of Rakhel: Yosef and Binyamin.
25. The sons of Bilhah (Rakhel’s servant): Dan and Naphtali.
26. The sons of Zilpah (Leah’s servant): Gad and Asher. These are the sons of Yaakov, who were born to him in Paddan Aram.
27. Yaakov came to Yitzhak his father, to Mamre, to Kiriath Arba (which is Hebron), where Avraham and Yitzhak lived as foreigners.
28. The days of Yitzhak were one hundred eighty years.
29. Yitzhak gave up the spirit and died, and was gathered to his people, old and full of days. Esav and Yaakov, his sons, buried him.