Genesis - Chapter 22

1. After these things, Elohim tested Avraham, and said to him, “Avraham!” He said, “Here I am.”
2. He said, “Take now your son, your only one, whom you love—Yitzhak—and go for yourself to the land of Moriah. Offer him there as an עולה upon one of the mountains that I will tell you of.”
3. Avraham rose early in the morning, and saddled his donkey; and took two of his young men with him, and Yitzhak his son. He split the wood for the burnt offering, and rose up, and went to the place of which Elohim had told him.
4. On the third day Avraham lifted up his eyes, and saw the place far off.
5. Avraham said to his young men, “Stay here with the donkey. The boy and I will go over there. We will worship, and come back to you.”
6. Avraham took the wood of the burnt offering and laid it on Yitzhak his son. He took in his hand the fire and the knife. They both went together.
7. Yitzhak spoke to Avraham his father, and said, “My father?” He said, “Here I am, my son.” He said, “Here is the fire and the wood, but where is the lamb for a burnt offering?”
8. Avraham said, “Elohim will provide himself the lamb for a burnt offering, my son.” So they both went together.
9. They came to the place which Elohim had told him of. Avraham built the altar there, and laid the wood in order, bound Yitzhak his son, and laid him on the altar, on the wood.
10. Avraham stretched out his hand, and took the knife to kill his son.
11. YHWH’s messenger called to him out of the heavens, and said, “Avraham, Avraham!” He said, “Here I am.”
12. He said, “Don’t lay your hand on the boy or do anything to him. For now I know that you fear Elohim, since you have not withheld your son, your only son, from me.”
13. Avraham lifted up his eyes, and looked, and saw that behind him was a ram caught in the thicket by his horns. Avraham went and took the ram, and offered him up for a burnt offering instead of his son.
14. Avraham called the name of that place “YHWH Will Provide”. As it is said to this day, “On YHWH’s mountain, it will be provided.”
15. YHWH’s messenger called to Avraham a second time out of the heavens,
16. and said, “ ‘I have sworn by myself,’ says YHWH, ‘because you have done this thing, and have not withheld your son, your only son,
17. that I will bless you greatly, and I will multiply your offspring greatly like the stars of the heavens, and like the sand which is on the seashore. Your offspring will possess the gate of his enemies.
18. All the nations of the earth will be blessed by your offspring, because you have obeyed my voice.’ ”
19. So Avraham returned to his young men, and they rose up and went together to Beersheba. Avraham lived at Beersheba.
20. After these things, Avraham was told, “Look, Milcah, she also has borne children to your brother Nahor:
21. Uz his firstborn, Buz his brother, Kemuel the father of Aram,
22. Chesed, Hazo, Pildash, Jidlaph, and Bethuel.”
23. Bethuel became the father of Rivqah. These eight Milcah bore to Nahor, Avraham’s brother.
24. His concubine, whose name was Reumah, also bore Tebah, Gaham, Tahash, and Maacah.