Genesis - Chapter 29

1. Then Yaakov went on his journey, and came to the land of the children of the east.
2. He looked, and saw a well in the field, and saw three flocks of sheep lying there by it. For out of that well they watered the flocks. The stone on the well’s mouth was large.
3. There all the flocks were gathered. They rolled the stone from the well’s mouth, and watered the sheep, and put the stone back on the well’s mouth in its place.
4. Yaakov said to them, “My relatives, where are you from?” They said, “We are from Haran.”
5. He said to them, “Do you know Laban, the son of Nahor?” They said, “We know him.”
6. He said to them, “Is it well with him?” They said, “It is well. See, Rakhel, his daughter, is coming with the sheep.”
7. He said, “Look, it is still the middle of the day, not time to gather the livestock together. Water the sheep, and go and feed them.”
8. They said, “We can’t, until all the flocks are gathered together, and they roll the stone from the well’s mouth. Then we will water the sheep.”
9. While he was yet speaking with them, Rakhel came with her father’s sheep, for she kept them.
10. When Yaakov saw Rakhel the daughter of Laban, his mother’s brother, and the sheep of Laban, his mother’s brother, Yaakov went near, and rolled the stone from the well’s mouth, and watered the flock of Laban his mother’s brother.
11. Yaakov kissed Rakhel, and lifted up his voice, and wept.
12. Yaakov told Rakhel that he was her father’s relative, and that he was Rivqah’s son. She ran and told her father.
13. When Laban heard the news of Yaakov, his sister’s son, he ran to meet Yaakov, and embraced him, and kissed him, and brought him to his house. Yaakov told Laban all these things.
14. Laban said to him, “Surely you are my bone and my flesh.” Yaakov stayed with him for a month.
15. Laban said to Yaakov, “Because you are my relative, should you therefore serve me for nothing? Tell me, what will your wages be?”
16. Laban had two daughters. The name of the elder was Leah, and the name of the younger was Rakhel.
17. Leah’s eyes were weak, but Rakhel was beautiful in form and attractive.
18. Yaakov loved Rakhel. He said, “I will serve you seven years for Rakhel, your younger daughter.”
19. Laban said, “It is better that I give her to you, than that I should give her to another man. Stay with me.”
20. Yaakov served seven years for Rakhel. They seemed to him but a few days, for the love he had for her.
21. Yaakov said to Laban, “Give me my wife, for my days are fulfilled, that I may go in to her.”
22. Laban gathered together all the men of the place, and made a feast.
23. In the evening, he took Leah his daughter, and brought her to Yaakov. He went in to her.
24. Laban gave Zilpah his servant to his daughter Leah for a servant.
25. In the morning, look, it was Leah! He said to Laban, “What is this you have done to me? Didn’t I serve with you for Rakhel? Why then have you deceived me?”
26. Laban said, “It is not done so in our place, to give the younger before the firstborn.
27. Fulfill the week of this one, and we will give you the other also for the service which you will serve with me for seven more years.”
28. Yaakov did so, and fulfilled her week. He gave him Rakhel his daughter as wife.
29. Laban gave Bilhah, his servant, to his daughter Rakhel to be her servant.
30. He went in also to Rakhel, and he loved also Rakhel more than Leah, and served with him seven more years.
31. YHWH saw that Leah was hated, and he opened her womb, but Rakhel was barren.
32. Leah conceived and bore a son, and she called his name Reuven, for she said, “Because YHWH has looked upon my affliction. For now my husband will love me.”
33. She conceived again, and bore a son, and said, “Because YHWH has heard that I am hated, he has therefore given me this son also.” She named him Shimon.
34. She conceived again, and bore a son. She said, “Now this time my husband will be joined to me, because I have borne him three sons.” Therefore his name was called Levi.
35. She conceived again, and bore a son. She said, “This time I will praise YHWH.” Therefore she named him Yehudah. Then she stopped bearing.