1 Samuel - Chapter 7

1. The men of Kiriath Jearim came, and fetched up the ark of YHWH, and brought it into the house of Abinadab in the hill, and sanctified Eleazar his son to keep the ark of YHWH.
2. It happened, from the day that the ark abode in Kiriath Jearim, that the time was long; for it was twenty years: and all the house of Israel lamented after YHWH.
3. Samuel spoke to all the house of Israel, saying, If you do return to YHWH with all your heart, then put away the foreign gods and the Ashtaroth from among you, and direct your hearts to YHWH, and serve him only; and he will deliver you out of the hand of the Philistines.
4. Then the children of Israel did put away the Baals and the Ashtaroth, and served YHWH only.
5. Samuel said, "Gather all Israel to Mizpah, and I will pray for you to YHWH."
6. They gathered together to Mizpah, and drew water, and poured it out before YHWH, and fasted on that day, and said there, "We have sinned against YHWH." Samuel judged the children of Israel in Mizpah.
7. When the Philistines heard that the children of Israel were gathered together at Mizpah, the lords of the Philistines went up against Israel. When the children of Israel heard it, they were afraid of the Philistines.
8. The children of Israel said to Samuel, "Don't cease to cry to YHWH our Elohim for us, that he will save us out of the hand of the Philistines."
9. Samuel took a sucking lamb, and offered it for a whole burnt offering to YHWH: and Samuel cried to YHWH for Israel; and YHWH answered him.
10. As Samuel was offering up the burnt offering, the Philistines drew near to battle against Israel; but YHWH thundered with a great thunder on that day on the Philistines, and confused them; and they were struck down before Israel.
11. The men of Israel went out of Mizpah, and pursued the Philistines, and struck them, until they came under Beth Kar.
12. Then Samuel took a stone, and set it between Mizpah and Shen, and called the name of it Ebenezer, saying, Hitherto has YHWH helped us.
13. So the Philistines were subdued, and they came no more within the border of Israel: and the hand of YHWH was against the Philistines all the days of Samuel.
14. The cities which the Philistines had taken from Israel were restored to Israel, from Ekron even to Gath; and the border of it did Israel deliver out of the hand of the Philistines. There was peace between Israel and the Amorites.
15. Samuel judged Israel all the days of his life.
16. He went from year to year in circuit to Bethel and Gilgal, and Mizpah; and he judged Israel in all those places.
17. His return was to Ramah, for there was his house; and there he judged Israel: and he built there an altar to YHWH.